  UM10204
  2
  I C-bus specification and user manual
  Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021                                                        User manual




Document information
Information     Content
                 2     2
Keywords        I C, I C-bus, Standard-mode, Fast-mode, Fast-mode Plus, Fm+, UltraFast-
                mode, UFm, High Speed, Hs, inter-IC, SDA, SCL, USDA, USCL
Abstract        Philips Semiconductors (now NXP Semiconductors) developed a simple
                                                                                                 2
                bidirectional 2-wire bus for efficient inter-IC control, called the Inter-IC or I C-
                bus. Only two bus lines are required: a serial data line (SDA) and a serial
                clock line (SCL). Serial, 8-bit oriented, bidirectional data transfers can be
                made at up to 100 kbit/s in Standard-mode, up to 400 kbit/s in Fast-mode, up
                to 1 Mbit/s in Fast-mode Plus (Fm+), or up to 3.4 Mbit/s in High-speed mode.
                Ultra Fast-mode is a unidirectional mode with data transfers of up to 5 Mbit/s.
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                UM10204
                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                             I C-bus specification and user manual


Table 1. Revision history
Rev        Date       Description
v.7        20211001   User manual; seventh release
Modifications:        • Updated Table 5
                      • Updated the terms "master/slave" to "controller/target" throughout to align with MIPI I3C
                        specification and NXP's Inclusive Language Project
                      • Added Section 9
v.6        20140404   User manual; sixth release
Modifications:        • Figure 41 updated (recalculated)
                      • Figure 42 updated (recalculated)
v.5        20121009   User manual; fifth release
v.4        20120213   User manual Rev. 4
v.3        20070619   Many of today’s applications require longer buses and/or faster speeds. Fast-mode Plus was
                      introduced to meet this need by increasing drive strength by as much as 10× and increasing the
                      data rate to 1 Mbit/s while maintaining downward compatibility to Fast-mode and Standard-mode
                      speeds and software commands.
                                         2
v2.1       2000       Version 2.1 of the I C-bus specification
                            2
v2.0       1998       The I C-bus has become a de facto world standard that is now implemented in over 1000 different
                      ICs and licensed to more than 50 companies. Many of today’s applications, however, require higher
                                                                                         2
                      bus speeds and lower supply voltages. This updated version of the I C-bus specification meets
                      those requirements.
                                         2
v1.0       1992       Version 1.0 of the I C-bus specification
Original   1982       first release




UM10204                                  All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                           Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                             2 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                              UM10204
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                           I C-bus specification and user manual


1         Introduction
                          2
                     The I C-bus is a de facto world standard that is now implemented in over 1000 different
                                                                                              2
                     ICs manufactured by more than 50 companies. Additionally, the versatile I C-bus is
                     used in various control architectures such as System Management Bus (SMBus), Power
                     Management Bus (PMBus), Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI), Display
                     Data Channel (DDC) and Advanced Telecom Computing Architecture (ATCA).
                                                                                                                                          2
                     This document assists device and system designers to understand how the I C-bus
                     works and implement a working application. Various operating modes are described. It
                                                                   2
                     contains a comprehensive introduction to the I C-bus data transfer, handshaking and bus
                     arbitration schemes. Detailed sections cover the timing and electrical specifications for
                          2
                     the I C-bus in each of its operating modes.
                                   2
                     Designers of I C-compatible chips should use this document as a reference and ensure
                     that new devices meet all limits specified in this document. Designers of systems that
                              2
                     include I C devices should review this document and also refer to individual component
                     data sheets.
                                                                  2
                     Readers looking to develop I C based solutions may also be interested in I3C, introduced
                     by the MIPI Alliance in 2017, with NXP's involvement and contributions. MIPI I3C offers
                                                   2
                     backward compatibility with I C, increased speed and low power consumption, and a
                     royalty-free version is available for implementers. More information is included at the end
                     of this document in Section 9.

          2
2         I C-bus features
                     In consumer electronics, telecommunications and industrial electronics, there are often
                     many similarities between seemingly unrelated designs. For example, nearly every
                     system includes:
                     • Some intelligent control, usually a single-chip microcontroller
                     • General-purpose circuits like LCD and LED drivers, remote I/O ports, RAM, EEPROM,
                       real-time clocks or A/D and D/A converters
                     • Application-oriented circuits such as digital tuning and signal processing circuits for
                       radio and video systems, temperature sensors, and smart cards
                     To exploit these similarities to the benefit of both systems designers and equipment
                     manufacturers, as well as to maximize hardware efficiency and circuit simplicity, Philips
                     Semiconductors (now NXP Semiconductors) developed a simple bidirectional 2-wire
                                                                                             2            2
                     bus for efficient inter-IC control. This bus is called the Inter IC or I C-bus. All I C-bus
                     compatible devices incorporate an on-chip interface which allows them to communicate
                                                        2
                     directly with each other via the I C-bus. This design concept solves the many interfacing
                     problems encountered when designing digital control circuits.
                                                                                    2
                     Here are some of the features of the I C-bus:
                     • Only two bus lines are required; a serial data line (SDA) and a serial clock line (SCL).
                     • Each device connected to the bus is software addressable by a unique address and
                       simple controller/target relationships exist at all times; controllers can operate as
                       controller-transmitters or as controller-receivers.
                     • It is a true multi-controller bus including collision detection and arbitration to prevent
                       data corruption if two or more controllers simultaneously initiate data transfer.



UM10204                                All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                         Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                           3 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                             UM10204
                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                            I C-bus specification and user manual


                                 • Serial, 8-bit oriented, bidirectional data transfers can be made at up to 100 kbit/s in the
                                   Standard-mode, up to 400 kbit/s in the Fast-mode, up to 1 Mbit/s in Fast-mode Plus, or
                                   up to 3.4 Mbit/s in the High-speed mode.
                                 • Serial, 8-bit oriented, unidirectional data transfers up to 5 Mbit/s in Ultra Fast-mode
                                 • On-chip filtering rejects spikes on the bus data line to preserve data integrity.
                                 • The number of ICs that can be connected to the same bus is limited only by a
                                   maximum bus capacitance. More capacitance may be allowed under some conditions.
                                   Refer to Section 7.2.
                                                                                        2
                                 Figure 1 shows an example of I C-bus applications.

                                I2 C                   I2 C
                                                                                    I2C                                                  I2C                       I2C
                             A/D or D/A          General Purpose
                                                                               LED Controllers                                       DIP Switches                 Target
                             Converters           I/O Expanders


              VDD4                                                                                                                                  VDD5

                                                                                                              I2C
                                                                                                           Repeaters/
                                                                                                         Hubs/Extenders

                                                                        VDD0

                                                                                                       I2C Port
                          VDD2                                                                        via HW or                      MCUs
                                                                                                     Bit Banging
                                             PCA9541
               I2 C
                                                 I2 C
           Multiplexers                                                 VDD1
                                         Controller Selector/
          and Switches
                                              Demux
                                                                                                       I2C                    8
                                                                                                                                        MCUs
                                                                                                  Bus Controllers



                                                                                                        I2C                               I2C
                                            I2C                  LCD Drivers
                                                                                                 Real Time Clock/                     Temperature
                                     Serial EEPROMs               (with I2C)
                                                                                                   Calendars                            Sensors


                      VDD3
                                                                                                                                                                               SPI
                                                                                                                                                                              UART
                                                                                                                                                            Bridges
                                                                                                                                                           (with I2C)
                                                                                                                                                                               USB

                                                                                                                                                                             002aac858
                                 2
 Figure 1. Example of I C-bus applications


                          2.1 Designer benefits
                                 2
                                 I C-bus compatible ICs allow a system design to progress rapidly directly from a
                                 functional block diagram to a prototype. Moreover, since they ‘clip’ directly onto the
                                  2
                                 I C-bus without any additional external interfacing, they allow a prototype system to be
                                 modified or upgraded simply by ‘clipping’ or ‘unclipping’ ICs to or from the bus.
                                                                                             2
                                 Here are some of the features of I C-bus compatible ICs that are particularly attractive to
                                 designers:
                                 • Functional blocks on the block diagram correspond with the actual ICs; designs
                                   proceed rapidly from block diagram to final schematic.
                                                                                  2
                                 • No need to design bus interfaces because the I C-bus interface is already integrated
                                   on-chip.


UM10204                                                 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                            © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                          Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                          4 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                          UM10204
                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                       I C-bus specification and user manual


                  • Integrated addressing and data-transfer protocol allow systems to be completely
                    software-defined.
                  • The same IC types can often be used in many different applications.
                  • Design-time reduces as designers quickly become familiar with the frequently used
                                                      2
                    functional blocks represented by I C-bus compatible ICs.
                  • ICs can be added to or removed from a system without affecting any other circuits on
                    the bus.
                  • Fault diagnosis and debugging are simple; malfunctions can be immediately traced.
                  • Software development time can be reduced by assembling a library of reusable
                    software modules.
                                                                                                                2
                  In addition to these advantages, the CMOS ICs in the I C-bus compatible range offer
                  designers special features which are particularly attractive for portable equipment and
                  battery-backed systems.
                  They all have:
                  • Extremely low current consumption
                  • High noise immunity
                  • Wide supply voltage range
                  • Wide operating temperature range.

              2.2 Manufacturer benefits
                  2
                  I C-bus compatible ICs not only assist designers, they also give a wide range of benefits
                  to equipment manufacturers because:
                                                          2
                  • The simple 2-wire serial I C-bus minimizes interconnections so ICs have fewer pins
                    and there are not so many PCB tracks; result — smaller and less expensive PCBs.
                                                 2
                  • The completely integrated I C-bus protocol eliminates the need for address decoders
                    and other ‘glue logic’.
                                                            2
                  • The multi-controller capability of the I C-bus allows rapid testing and alignment of end-
                    user equipment via external connections to an assembly line.
                                         2
                  • The availability of I C-bus compatible ICs in various leadless packages reduces space
                    requirements even more.
                                                                                                        2
                  These are just some of the benefits. In addition, I C-bus compatible ICs increase
                  system design flexibility by allowing simple construction of equipment variants and easy
                  upgrading to keep designs up-to-date. In this way, an entire family of equipment can be
                  developed around a basic model. Upgrades for new equipment, or enhanced-feature
                  models (that is, extended memory, remote control, etc.) can then be produced simply by
                  clipping the appropriate ICs onto the bus. If a larger ROM is needed, it is simply a matter
                  of selecting a microcontroller with a larger ROM from our comprehensive range. As new
                  ICs supersede older ones, it is easy to add new features to equipment or to increase
                  its performance by simply unclipping the outdated IC from the bus and clipping on its
                  successor.

              2.3 IC designer benefits
                  Designers of microcontrollers are frequently under pressure to conserve output pins.
                        2
                  The I C protocol allows connection of a wide variety of peripherals without the need for
                  separate addressing or chip enable signals. Additionally, a microcontroller that includes
                      2
                  an I C interface is more successful in the marketplace due to the wide variety of existing
                  peripheral devices available.

UM10204                            All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                     Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                       5 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                 UM10204
                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                             I C-bus specification and user manual

              2
3         The I C-bus protocol
                                                                                                                          2
                  3.1 Standard-mode, Fast-mode and Fast-mode Plus I C-bus protocols
                      Two wires, serial data (SDA) and serial clock (SCL), carry information between the
                      devices connected to the bus. Each device is recognized by a unique address (whether it
                      is a microcontroller, LCD driver, memory or keyboard interface) and can operate as either
                      a transmitter or receiver, depending on the function of the device. An LCD driver may
                      be only a receiver, whereas a memory can both receive and transmit data. In addition to
                      transmitters and receivers, devices can also be considered as controllers or targets when
                      performing data transfers (see Table 2). A controller is the device which initiates a data
                      transfer on the bus and generates the clock signals to permit that transfer. At that time,
                      any device addressed is considered a target.
                                                     2
                      Table 2. Definition of I C-bus terminology
                      Term                            Description
                      Transmitter                     the device which sends data to the bus
                      Receiver                        the device which receives data from the bus
                      Controller                      the device which initiates a transfer, generates clock signals and
                                                      terminates a transfer
                      Target                          the device addressed by a controller
                      Multi-controller                more than one controller can attempt to control the bus at the same time
                                                      without corrupting the message
                      Arbitration                     procedure to ensure that, if more than one controller simultaneously tries
                                                      to control the bus, only one is allowed to do so and the winning message
                                                      is not corrupted
                      Synchronization                 procedure to synchronize the clock signals of two or more devices

                              2
                      The I C-bus is a multi-controller bus. This means that more than one device capable of
                      controlling the bus can be connected to it. As controllers are usually microcontrollers, let
                      us consider the case of a data transfer between two microcontrollers connected to the
                       2
                      I C-bus (see Figure 2).

                                    MICRO -                                         LCD                                 STATIC
                                    CONTROLLER                                      DRIVER                              RAM OR
                                    A                                                                                   EEPROM



                        SDA

                        SCL



                                                                                                                                    MICRO -
                                                           GATE                                                                     CONTROLLER
                                                           ARRAY                                             ADC                    B

                                                                                                                                                        mbc645
                                                             2
                      Figure 2. Example of an I C-bus configuration using two microcontrollers

                      This example highlights the controller-target and receiver-transmitter relationships found
                              2
                      on the I C-bus. Note that these relationships are not permanent, but only depend on the
                      direction of data transfer at that time. The transfer of data would proceed as follows:
UM10204                                  All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                           Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                             6 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                            UM10204
                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                      I C-bus specification and user manual


              1. Suppose microcontroller A wants to send information to microcontroller B:
                 • microcontroller A (controller), addresses microcontroller B (target)
                 • microcontroller A (controller-transmitter), sends data to microcontroller B (target-
                    receiver)
                 • microcontroller A terminates the transfer.
              2. If microcontroller A wants to receive information from microcontroller B:
                 • microcontroller A (controller) addresses microcontroller B (target)
                 • microcontroller A (controller-receiver) receives data from microcontroller B (target-
                    transmitter)
                 • microcontroller A terminates the transfer.
              Even in this case, the controller (microcontroller A) generates the timing and terminates
              the transfer.
                                                                                                                       2
              The possibility of connecting more than one microcontroller to the I C-bus means that
              more than one controller could try to initiate a data transfer at the same time. To avoid
              the chaos that might ensue from such an event, an arbitration procedure has been
                                                                                       2
              developed. This procedure relies on the wired-AND connection of all I C interfaces to the
               2
              I C-bus.
              If two or more controllers try to put information onto the bus, the first to produce a ‘one’
              when the other produces a ‘zero’ loses the arbitration. The clock signals during arbitration
              are a synchronized combination of the clocks generated by the controllers using
              the wired-AND connection to the SCL line (for more detailed information concerning
              arbitration see Section 3.1.8).
                                                                          2
              Generation of clock signals on the I C-bus is always the responsibility of controller
              devices; each controller generates its own clock signals when transferring data on the
              bus. Bus clock signals from a controller can only be altered when they are stretched by
              a slow target device holding down the clock line or by another controller when arbitration
              occurs.
                                                                                                                               2
              Table 3 summarizes the use of mandatory and optional portions of the I C-bus
              specification and which system configurations use them.
                                                    2
              Table 3. Applicability of I C-bus protocol features
              M = mandatory; O = optional; n/a = not applicable.
               Feature                                  Configuration
                                                                                                                                      [1]
                                                        Single controller                           Multi-controller       Target
               START condition                          M                                           M                      M
               STOP condition                           M                                           M                      M
               Acknowledge                              M                                           M                      M
               Synchronization                          n/a                                         M                      n/a
               Arbitration                              n/a                                         M                      n/a
                                                            [2]                                         [2]
               Clock stretching                         O                                           O                      O
               7-bit target address                     M                                           M                      M
               10-bit target address                    O                                           O                      O
               General Call address                     O                                           O                      O
               Software Reset                           O                                           O                      O
                                                                                                        [3]
               START byte                               n/a                                         O                      n/a
UM10204                           All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                   © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                    Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                           7 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                 UM10204
                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                              I C-bus specification and user manual

                                                            2
                    Table 3. Applicability of I C-bus protocol features...continued
                    M = mandatory; O = optional; n/a = not applicable.
                    Feature                                     Configuration
                                                                                                                                           [1]
                                                                Single controller                           Multi-controller    Target
                    Device ID                                   n/a                                         n/a                 O

                    [1]   Also refers to a controller acting as a target.
                    [2]   Clock stretching is a feature of some targets. If no targets in a system can stretch the clock (hold SCL LOW), the
                          controller need not be designed to handle this procedure.
                    [3]   ‘Bit banging’ (software emulation) multi-controller systems should consider a START byte. See Section 3.1.15.


              3.1.1 SDA and SCL signals
                    Both SDA and SCL are bidirectional lines, connected to a positive supply voltage via
                    a current-source or pull-up resistor (see Figure 3). When the bus is free, both lines are
                    HIGH. The output stages of devices connected to the bus must have an open-drain or
                                                                                     2
                    open-collector to perform the wired-AND function. Data on the I C-bus can be transferred
                    at rates of up to 100 kbit/s in the Standard-mode, up to 400 kbit/s in the Fast-mode,
                    up to 1 Mbit/s in Fast-mode Plus, or up to 3.4 Mbit/s in the High-speed mode. The bus
                    capacitance limits the number of interfaces connected to the bus.
                    For a single controller application, the controller’s SCL output can be a push-pull driver
                    design if there are no devices on the bus which would stretch the clock.

                                                                          VDD1 =
                                                                         5 V ± 10 %                                    VDD2      VDD3




                                                                       CMOS                      CMOS                  NMOS     BIPOLAR
                                             Rp        Rp
                                   SDA
                                    SCL
                                                                                                                                    002aac860

                     VDD2, VDD3 are device-dependent (for example, 12 V).
                     Figure 3. Devices with various supply voltages sharing the same bus


              3.1.2 SDA and SCL logic levels
                    Due to the variety of different technology devices (CMOS, NMOS, bipolar) that can be
                                       2
                    connected to the I C-bus, the levels of the logical ‘0’ (LOW) and ‘1’ (HIGH) are not fixed
                    and depend on the associated level of VDD. Input reference levels are set as 30 % and 70
                    % of VDD; VIL is 0.3VDD and VIH is 0.7VDD. See Figure 38, timing diagram. Some legacy
                    device input levels were fixed at VIL = 1.5 V and VIH = 3.0 V, but all new devices require
                    this 30 %/70 % specification. See Section 6 for electrical specifications.

              3.1.3 Data validity
                    The data on the SDA line must be stable during the HIGH period of the clock. The HIGH
                    or LOW state of the data line can only change when the clock signal on the SCL line is
                    LOW (see Figure 4). One clock pulse is generated for each data bit transferred.




UM10204                                   All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                            Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                8 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                            UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual



                                       SDA



                                       SCL


                                                                          data line               change
                                                                           stable;                of data
                                                                          data valid              allowed               mba607
                                                                2
                     Figure 4. Bit transfer on the I C-bus


              3.1.4 START and STOP conditions
                    All transactions begin with a START (S) and are terminated by a STOP (P) (see
                    Figure 5). A HIGH to LOW transition on the SDA line while SCL is HIGH defines a
                    START condition. A LOW to HIGH transition on the SDA line while SCL is HIGH defines
                    a STOP condition.


                            SDA



                            SCL
                                                 S                                                                          P

                                     START condition                                                                  STOP condition
                                                                                                                                        mba608

                     Figure 5. START and STOP conditions

                    START and STOP conditions are always generated by the controller. The bus is
                    considered to be busy after the START condition. The bus is considered to be free again
                    a certain time after the STOP condition. This bus free situation is specified in Section 6.
                    The bus stays busy if a repeated START (Sr) is generated instead of a STOP condition.
                    In this respect, the START (S) and repeated START (Sr) conditions are functionally
                    identical. For the remainder of this document, therefore, the S symbol is used as a
                    generic term to represent both the START and repeated START conditions, unless Sr is
                    particularly relevant.
                    Detection of START and STOP conditions by devices connected to the bus is easy if
                    they incorporate the necessary interfacing hardware. However, microcontrollers with no
                    such interface have to sample the SDA line at least twice per clock period to sense the
                    transition.

              3.1.5 Byte format
                    Every byte put on the SDA line must be eight bits long. The number of bytes that can be
                    transmitted per transfer is unrestricted. Each byte must be followed by an Acknowledge
                    bit. Data is transferred with the Most Significant Bit (MSB) first (see Figure 6). If a target
                    cannot receive or transmit another complete byte of data until it has performed some
                    other function, for example servicing an internal interrupt, it can hold the clock line SCL
                    LOW to force the controller into a wait state. Data transfer then continues when the target
                    is ready for another byte of data and releases clock line SCL.




UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                  © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                            9 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                      UM10204
                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                     I C-bus specification and user manual


                                                                                                                                                                      P
          SDA
                                  MSB                                 acknowledgment                                                     acknowledgment               Sr
                                                                      signal from target                                               signal from receiver


          SCL       S or Sr        1      2                7           8           9                     1           2        3 to 8         9                 Sr or P
                                                                                ACK                                                        ACK
                   START or                                                                                                                                 STOP or
                repeated START                              byte complete,                                   clock line held LOW                        repeated START
                   condition                         interrupt within target                                 while interrupts are serviced                 condition
                                                                                                                                                                    002aac861
                                         2
 Figure 6. Data transfer on the I C-bus


                       3.1.6 Acknowledge (ACK) and Not Acknowledge (NACK)
                                 The acknowledge takes place after every byte. The acknowledge bit allows the receiver
                                 to signal the transmitter that the byte was successfully received and another byte may
                                 be sent. The controller generates all clock pulses, including the acknowledge ninth clock
                                 pulse.
                                 The Acknowledge signal is defined as follows: the transmitter releases the SDA line
                                 during the acknowledge clock pulse so the receiver can pull the SDA line LOW and it
                                 remains stable LOW during the HIGH period of this clock pulse (see Figure 4). Set-up
                                 and hold times (specified in Section 6) must also be taken into account.
                                 When SDA remains HIGH during this ninth clock pulse, this is defined as the Not
                                 Acknowledge signal. The controller can then generate either a STOP condition to abort
                                 the transfer, or a repeated START condition to start a new transfer. There are five
                                 conditions that lead to the generation of a NACK:
                                 1. No receiver is present on the bus with the transmitted address so there is no device to
                                    respond with an acknowledge.
                                 2. The receiver is unable to receive or transmit because it is performing some real-time
                                    function and is not ready to start communication with the controller.
                                 3. During the transfer, the receiver gets data or commands that it does not understand.
                                 4. During the transfer, the receiver cannot receive any more data bytes.
                                 5. A controller-receiver must signal the end of the transfer to the target transmitter.

                       3.1.7 Clock synchronization
                                 Two controllers can begin transmitting on a free bus at the same time and there must
                                 be a method for deciding which takes control of the bus and complete its transmission.
                                 This is done by clock synchronization and arbitration. In single controller systems, clock
                                 synchronization and arbitration are not needed.
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                 Clock synchronization is performed using the wired-AND connection of I C interfaces
                                 to the SCL line. This means that a HIGH to LOW transition on the SCL line causes the
                                 controllers concerned to start counting off their LOW period and, once a controller clock
                                 has gone LOW, it holds the SCL line in that state until the clock HIGH state is reached
                                 (see Figure 7). However, if another clock is still within its LOW period, the LOW to HIGH
                                 transition of this clock may not change the state of the SCL line. The SCL line is therefore
                                 held LOW by the controller with the longest LOW period. Controllers with shorter LOW
                                 periods enter a HIGH wait-state during this time.



UM10204                                          All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                             © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                    Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                  10 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                   UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual


                                                                                                                 start counting
                                                                                             wait                HIGH period
                                                                                             state

                                             CLK
                                              1


                                                                              counter
                                             CLK                              reset
                                              2




                                             SCL

                                                                                                                          mbc632

                     Figure 7. Clock synchronization during the arbitration procedure

                    When all controllers concerned have counted off their LOW period, the clock line is
                    released and goes HIGH. There is then no difference between the controller clocks and
                    the state of the SCL line, and all the controllers start counting their HIGH periods. The
                    first controller to complete its HIGH period pulls the SCL line LOW again.
                    In this way, a synchronized SCL clock is generated with its LOW period determined by
                    the controller with the longest clock LOW period, and its HIGH period determined by the
                    one with the shortest clock HIGH period.

              3.1.8 Arbitration
                    Arbitration, like synchronization, refers to a portion of the protocol required only if more
                    than one controller is used in the system. Targets are not involved in the arbitration
                    procedure. A controller may start a transfer only if the bus is free. Two controllers may
                    generate a START condition within the minimum hold time (tHD;STA) of the START
                    condition which results in a valid START condition on the bus. Arbitration is then required
                    to determine which controller will complete its transmission.
                    Arbitration proceeds bit by bit. During every bit, while SCL is HIGH, each controller
                    checks to see if the SDA level matches what it has sent. This process may take many
                    bits. Two controllers can actually complete an entire transaction without error, as long
                    as the transmissions are identical. The first time a controller tries to send a HIGH, but
                    detects that the SDA level is LOW, the controller knows that it has lost the arbitration and
                    turns off its SDA output driver. The other controller goes on to complete its transaction.
                    No information is lost during the arbitration process. A controller that loses the arbitration
                    can generate clock pulses until the end of the byte in which it loses the arbitration and
                    must restart its transaction when the bus is free.
                    If a controller also incorporates a target function and it loses arbitration during the
                    addressing stage, it is possible that the winning controller is trying to address it. The
                    losing controller must therefore switch over immediately to its target mode.
                    Figure 8 shows the arbitration procedure for two controllers. More may be involved
                    depending on how many controllers are connected to the bus. The moment there is a
                    difference between the internal data level of the controller generating DATA1 and the
                    actual level on the SDA line, the DATA1 output is switched off. This does not affect the
                    data transfer initiated by the winning controller.




UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                     © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                             11 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                              UM10204
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                           I C-bus specification and user manual


                                                                                                             controller 1 loses arbitration
                                                                                                                   DATA 1 SDA

                              DATA 1




                              DATA 2




                               SDA




                               SCL

                                             S
                                                                                                                                                      msc609

                      Figure 8. Arbitration procedure of two controllers
                                                 2
                     Since control of the I C-bus is decided solely on the address and data sent by competing
                     controllers, there is no central controller, nor any order of priority on the bus.
                     There is an undefined condition if the arbitration procedure is still in progress at the
                     moment when one controller sends a repeated START or a STOP condition while the
                     other controller is still sending data. In other words, the following combinations result in
                     an undefined condition:
                     • Controller 1 sends a repeated START condition and controller 2 sends a data bit.
                     • Controller 1 sends a STOP condition and controller 2 sends a data bit.
                     • Controller 1 sends a repeated START condition and controller 2 sends a STOP
                       condition.

               3.1.9 Clock stretching
                     Clock stretching pauses a transaction by holding the SCL line LOW. The transaction
                     cannot continue until the line is released HIGH again. Clock stretching is optional and in
                     fact, most target devices do not include an SCL driver so they are unable to stretch the
                     clock.
                     On the byte level, a device may be able to receive bytes of data at a fast rate, but needs
                     more time to store a received byte or prepare another byte to be transmitted. Targets can
                     then hold the SCL line LOW after reception and acknowledgment of a byte to force the
                     controller into a wait state until the target is ready for the next byte transfer in a type of
                     handshake procedure (see Figure 7).
                     On the bit level, a device such as a microcontroller with or without limited hardware for
                          2
                     the I C-bus, can slow down the bus clock by extending each clock LOW period. The
                     speed of any controller is adapted to the internal operating rate of this device.
                     In Hs-mode, this handshake feature can only be used on byte level (see Section 5.3.2).

              3.1.10 The target address and R/W bit
                     Data transfers follow the format shown in Figure 9. After the START condition (S), a
                     target address is sent. This address is seven bits long followed by an eighth bit which is
                     a data direction bit (R/W) — a ‘zero’ indicates a transmission (WRITE), a ‘one’ indicates
                     a request for data (READ) (refer to Figure 10). A data transfer is always terminated by
UM10204                                All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                             © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                          Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                        12 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                             UM10204
                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                               I C-bus specification and user manual


                           a STOP condition (P) generated by the controller. However, if a controller still wishes to
                           communicate on the bus, it can generate a repeated START condition (Sr) and address
                           another target without first generating a STOP condition. Various combinations of read/
                           write formats are then possible within such a transfer.



          SDA




          SCL               1-7      8       9                  1-7                8             9                      1-7       8     9

                 S                                                                                                                                    P

               START      ADDRESS   R/W   ACK                        DATA                      ACK                       DATA          ACK       STOP
              condition                                                                                                                         condition
                                                                                                                                                    mbc604

 Figure 9. A complete data transfer



                                                                  MSB                                                           LSB

                                                                                                                                R/W

                                                                                       target address
                                                                                                                              mbc608

                            Figure 10. The first byte after the START procedure

                           Possible data transfer formats are:
                           • Controller-transmitter transmits to target-receiver. The transfer direction is not changed
                             (see Figure 11). The target receiver acknowledges each byte.
                           • Controller reads target immediately after first byte (see Figure 12). At the moment of
                             the first acknowledge, the controller-transmitter becomes a controller-receiver and the
                             target-receiver becomes a target-transmitter. This first acknowledge is still generated
                             by the target. The controller generates subsequent acknowledges. The STOP condition
                             is generated by the controller, which sends a not-acknowledge (A) just before the
                             STOP condition.
                           • Combined format (see Figure 13). During a change of direction within a transfer,
                             the START condition and the target address are both repeated, but with the R/W bit
                             reversed. If a controller-receiver sends a repeated START condition, it sends a not-
                             acknowledge (A) just before the repeated START condition.
                           Notes:
                           1. Combined formats can be used, for example, to control a serial memory. The internal
                              memory location must be written during the first data byte. After the START condition
                              and target address is repeated, data can be transferred.
                           2. All decisions on auto-increment or decrement of previously accessed memory
                              locations, etc., are taken by the designer of the device.
                           3. Each byte is followed by an acknowledgment bit as indicated by the A or A blocks in
                              the sequence.
                               2
                           4. I C-bus compatible devices must reset their bus logic on receipt of a START or
                              repeated START condition such that they all anticipate the sending of a target

UM10204                                    All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                        © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                             Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                       13 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                        UM10204
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                     I C-bus specification and user manual


                 address, even if these START conditions are not positioned according to the proper
                 format.
              5. A START condition immediately followed by a STOP condition (void message) is an
                 illegal format. Many devices however are designed to operate properly under this
                 condition.
              6. Each device connected to the bus is addressable by a unique address. Normally
                 a simple controller/target relationship exists, but it is possible to have multiple
                 identical targets that can receive and respond simultaneously, for example in a group
                 broadcast. This technique works best when using bus switching devices like the
                 PCA9546A where all four channels are on and identical devices are configured at
                 the same time, understanding that it is impossible to determine that each target
                 acknowledges, and then turn on one channel at a time to read back each individual
                 device’s configuration to confirm the programming. Refer to individual component data
                 sheets.

                                    S       TARGET ADDRESS                     R/W         A       DATA            A    DATA    A/A     P

                                                                                                         data transferred
                                                                           '0' (write)               (n bytes + acknowledge)



                                               from controller to target                            A = acknowledge (SDA LOW)
                                                                                                    A = not acknowledge (SDA HIGH)
                                              from target to controller                             S = START condition
                                                                                                    P = STOP condition
                                                                                                                                      mbc605


               Figure 11. A controller-transmitter addressing a target receiver with a 7-bit address (the
               transfer direction is not changed)



                                                                                  1

                                     S      TARGET ADDRESS                     R/W         A       DATA            A     DATA    A      P

                                                                                                          data transferred
                                                                              (read)                  (n bytes + acknowledge)
                                                                                                                                     mbc606

               Figure 12. A controller reads a target immediately after the first byte




                       S   TARGET ADDRESS R/W                    A     DATA A/A Sr TARGET ADDRESS R/W                           A     DATA A/A        P

                                                                         (n bytes                                                      (n bytes
                                                                             + ack.)*                                                      + ack.)*
                                                 read or write
                                                                                                              read or write           direction of transfer
                                                                                                                                      may change at this
                                                                                                                                      point.
                                                                                 Sr = repeated START condition
                     * not shaded because
                       transfer direction of                                                                                                        mbc607
                       data and acknowledge bits
                       depends on R/W bits.

               Figure 13. Combined format




UM10204                          All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                   Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                   14 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                       UM10204
                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                               I C-bus specification and user manual


              3.1.11 10-bit addressing
                       10-bit addressing expands the number of possible addresses. Devices with 7-bit and
                                                                      2
                       10-bit addresses can be connected to the same I C-bus, and both 7-bit and 10-bit
                       addressing can be used in all bus speed modes. Currently, 10-bit addressing is not being
                       widely used.
                       The 10-bit target address is formed from the first two bytes following a START condition
                       (S) or a repeated START condition (Sr).
                       The first seven bits of the first byte are the combination 1111 0XX of which the last two
                       bits (XX) are the two Most-Significant Bits (MSB) of the 10-bit address; the eighth bit of
                       the first byte is the R/W bit that determines the direction of the message.
                       Although there are eight possible combinations of the reserved address bits 1111 XXX,
                       only the four combinations 1111 0XX are used for 10-bit addressing. The remaining four
                                                                      2
                       combinations 1111 1XX are reserved for future I C-bus enhancements.
                       All combinations of read/write formats previously described for 7-bit addressing are
                       possible with 10-bit addressing. Two are detailed here:
                       • Controller-transmitter transmits to target-receiver with a 10-bit target address. The
                         transfer direction is not changed (see Figure 14). When a 10-bit address follows a
                         START condition, each target compares the first seven bits of the first byte of the target
                         address (1111 0XX) with its own address and tests if the eighth bit (R/W direction bit) is
                         0. It is possible that more than one device finds a match and generate an acknowledge
                         (A1). All targets that found a match compare the eight bits of the second byte of the
                         target address (XXXX XXXX) with their own addresses, but only one target finds a
                         match and generates an acknowledge (A2). The matching target remains addressed by
                         the controller until it receives a STOP condition (P) or a repeated START condition (Sr)
                         followed by a different target address.
                       • Controller-receiver reads target-transmitter with a 10-bit target address. The transfer
                         direction is changed after the second R/W bit (Figure 15). Up to and including
                         acknowledge bit A2, the procedure is the same as that described for a controller-
                         transmitter addressing a target-receiver. After the repeated START condition (Sr), a
                         matching target remembers that it was addressed before. This target then checks if the
                         first seven bits of the first byte of the target address following Sr are the same as they
                         were after the START condition (S), and tests if the eighth (R/W) bit is 1. If there is a
                         match, the target considers that it has been addressed as a transmitter and generates
                         acknowledge A3. The target-transmitter remains addressed until it receives a STOP
                         condition (P) or until it receives another repeated START condition (Sr) followed by
                         a different target address. After a repeated START condition (Sr), all the other target
                         devices will also compare the first seven bits of the first byte of the target address (1111
                         0XX) with their own addresses and test the eighth (R/W) bit. However, none of them
                         will be addressed because R/W = 1 (for 10-bit devices), or the 1111 0XX target address
                         (for 7-bit devices) does not match.

                           1 1 1 1 0 X X        0
                         TARGET ADDRESS        TARGET ADDRESS
                       S                R/W A1                A2 DATA                                           A       DATA A/A P
                            1st 7 BITS            2nd BYTE


                                             (write)                                                                          mbc613

 Figure 14. A controller-transmitter addresses a target-receiver with a 10-bit address




UM10204                                    All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                  © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                             Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                 15 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                     UM10204
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                  I C-bus specification and user manual


              1 1 1 1 0 X X     0                                                     1 1 1 1 0 X X                 1
            TARGET ADDRESS        TARGET ADDRESS                                TARGET ADDRESS
          S                R/W A1                A2                          Sr                R/W A3 DATA                   A      DATA    A      P
               1st 7 BITS            2nd BYTE                                      1st 7 BITS


                              (write)                                                                             (read)                     mbc614

 Figure 15. A controller-receiver addresses a target-transmitter with a 10-bit address

                       Target devices with 10-bit addressing react to a ‘general call’ in the same way as target
                       devices with 7-bit addressing. Hardware controllers can transmit their 10-bit address after
                       a ‘general call’. In this case, the ‘general call’ address byte is followed by two successive
                       bytes containing the 10-bit address of the controller-transmitter. The format is as shown
                       in Figure 15 where the first DATA byte contains the eight least-significant bits of the
                       controller address.
                       The START byte 0000 0001 (01h) can precede the 10-bit addressing in the same way as
                       for 7-bit addressing (see Section 3.1.15).

              3.1.12 Reserved addresses
                       Two groups of eight addresses (0000 XXX and 1111 XXX) are reserved for the purposes
                       shown in Table 4.

                       Table 4. Reserved addresses
                       X = don’t care; 1 = HIGH; 0 = LOW.
                        Target address                 R/W bit                 Description
                                                                                                                     [1]
                        0000 000                       0                       general call address
                                                                                                      [2]
                        0000 000                       1                       START byte
                                                                                                            [3]
                        0000 001                       X                       CBUS address
                                                                                                                            [4]
                        0000 010                       X                       reserved for different bus format
                        0000 011                       X                       reserved for future purposes
                        0000 1XX                       X                       Hs-mode controller code
                        1111 1XX                       1                       device ID
                        1111 0XX                       X                       10-bit target addressing

                       [1]    The general call address is used for several functions including software reset.
                       [2]    No device is allowed to acknowledge at the reception of the START byte.
                                                                                                                          2
                       [3]    The CBUS address has been reserved to enable the inter-mixing of CBUS compatible and I C-bus compatible devices in
                                                 2
                              the same system. I C-bus compatible devices are not allowed to respond on reception of this address.
                                                                                                     2                                         2
                       [4]    The address reserved for a different bus format is included to enable I C and other protocols to be mixed. Only I C-bus
                              compatible devices that can work with such formats and protocols are allowed to respond to this address.

                       Assignment of addresses within a local system is up to the system architect who must
                       take into account the devices being used on the bus and any future interaction with other
                                      2
                       conventional I C-buses. For example, a device with seven user-assignable address pins
                       allows all 128 addresses to be assigned. If it is known that the reserved address is never
                       going to be used for its intended purpose, a reserved address can be used for a target
                       address.

              3.1.13 General call address
                                                                                                                                            2
                       The general call address is for addressing every device connected to the I C-bus at
                       the same time. However, if a device does not need any of the data supplied within the

UM10204                                       All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                16 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                      UM10204
                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                  I C-bus specification and user manual


              general call structure, it can ignore this address by not issuing an acknowledgment. If a
              device does require data from a general call address, it acknowledges this address and
              behave as a target-receiver. The controller does not actually know how many devices
              acknowledged if one or more devices respond. The second and following bytes are
              acknowledged by every target-receiver capable of handling this data. A target who
              cannot process one of these bytes must ignore it by not-acknowledging. Again, if one
              or more targets acknowledge, the not-acknowledge will not be seen by the controller.
              The meaning of the general call address is always specified in the second byte (see
              Figure 16).

                                                                                                                          LSB

                                          0    0    0     0    0     0    0     0    A    X     X       X X   X    X   X B      A

                                                    first byte                                          second byte
                                              (general call address)                                                       mbc623

               Figure 16. General call address format

              There are two cases to consider:
              • When the least significant bit B is a ‘zero’.
              • When the least significant bit B is a ‘one’.
              When bit B is a ‘zero’, the second byte has the following definition:
              • 0000 0110 (06h): Reset and write programmable part of target address by
                hardware. On receiving this 2-byte sequence, all devices designed to respond to
                the general call address reset and take in the programmable part of their address.
                Precautions must be taken to ensure that a device is not pulling down the SDA or SCL
                line after applying the supply voltage, since these low levels would block the bus.
              • 0000 0100 (04h): Write programmable part of target address by hardware.
                Behaves as above, but the device does not reset.
              • 0000 0000 (00h): This code is not allowed to be used as the second byte.
              Sequences of programming procedure are published in the appropriate device data
              sheets. The remaining codes have not been fixed and devices must ignore them.
              When bit B is a ‘one’, the 2-byte sequence is a ‘hardware general call’. This means
              that the sequence is transmitted by a hardware controller device, such as a keyboard
              scanner, which can be programmed to transmit a desired target address. Since a
              hardware controller does not know in advance to which device the message has to
              be transferred, it can only generate this hardware general call and its own address —
              identifying itself to the system (see Figure 17).

                               S     00000000 A CONTROLLER ADDRESS                                    1    A DATA A DATA A              P

                                                                                                (B)

                                     general                                  second                              (n bytes + ack.)
                                   call address                                byte                                                  mbc624

               Figure 17. Data transfer from a hardware controller-transmitter

              The seven bits remaining in the second byte contain the address of the hardware
              controller. This address is recognized by an intelligent device (for example, a
              microcontroller) connected to the bus which then accepts the information from the
              hardware controller. If the hardware controller can also act as a target, the target address
              is identical to the controller address.

UM10204                       All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                                © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                  17 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                         UM10204
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                          I C-bus specification and user manual


                     In some systems, an alternative could be that the hardware controller transmitter is set
                     in the target-receiver mode after the system reset. In this way, a system configuring
                     controller can tell the hardware controller-transmitter (which is now in target-receiver
                     mode) to which address data must be sent (see Figure 18). After this programming
                     procedure, the hardware controller remains in the controller-transmitter mode.

                            S   TARGET ADDR. H/W CONTROLLER R/W A                                 DUMP ADDR. FOR H/W CONTROLLER X A                         P


                                                                                   write                                                            002aac885

                      a. Configuring controller sends dump address to hardware controller

                                     S   DUMP ADDR. FROM H/W CONTROLLER R/W A                                      DATA A    DATA A/A        P


                                                                                                        write
                                                                                                                     (n bytes + ack.)
                                                                                                                                        002aac886

                      b. Hardware controller dumps data to selected target

                      Figure 18. Data transfer by a hardware-transmitter capable of dumping data directly to
                      target devices


              3.1.14 Software reset
                     Following a General Call, (0000 0000), sending 0000 0110 (06h) as the second byte
                     causes a software reset. This feature is optional and not all devices respond to this
                     command. On receiving this 2-byte sequence, all devices designed to respond to
                     the general call address reset and take in the programmable part of their address.
                     Precautions must be taken to ensure that a device is not pulling down the SDA or SCL
                     line after applying the supply voltage, since these low levels would block the bus.

              3.1.15 START byte
                                                                                            2
                     Microcontrollers can be connected to the I C-bus in two ways. A microcontroller with
                                            2
                     an on-chip hardware I C-bus interface can be programmed to be only interrupted
                     by requests from the bus. When the device does not have such an interface, it must
                     constantly monitor the bus via software. Obviously, the more times the microcontroller
                     monitors, or polls the bus, the less time it can spend carrying out its intended function.
                     There is therefore a speed difference between fast hardware devices and a relatively
                     slow microcontroller which relies on software polling.
                     In this case, data transfer can be preceded by a start procedure which is much longer
                     than normal (see Figure 19). The start procedure consists of:
                     • A START condition (S)
                     • A START byte (0000 0001)
                     • An acknowledge clock pulse (ACK)
                     • A repeated START condition (Sr).




UM10204                               All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                          © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                        Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                    18 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                         UM10204
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                            I C-bus specification and user manual




                                 SDA                                                                                      dummy
                                                                                                                        acknowledge
                                                                                                                           (HIGH)


                                 SCL                            1               2                      7            8         9

                                             S                                                                               NACK         Sr

                                                                             START byte 0000 0001                                        002aac997

                     Figure 19. START byte procedure

                     After the START condition S has been transmitted by a controller which requires bus
                     access, the START byte (0000 0001) is transmitted. Another microcontroller can
                     therefore sample the SDA line at a low sampling rate until one of the seven zeros in
                     the START byte is detected. After detection of this LOW level on the SDA line, the
                     microcontroller can switch to a higher sampling rate to find the repeated START condition
                     Sr which is then used for synchronization.
                     A hardware receiver resets upon receipt of the repeated START condition Sr and
                     therefore ignores the START byte.
                     An acknowledge-related clock pulse is generated after the START byte. This is present
                     only to conform with the byte handling format used on the bus. No device is allowed to
                     acknowledge the START byte.

              3.1.16 Bus clear
                     In the unlikely event where the clock (SCL) is stuck LOW, the preferential procedure is
                                                                         2
                     to reset the bus using the HW reset signal if your I C devices have HW reset inputs. If
                          2
                     the I C devices do not have HW reset inputs, cycle power to the devices to activate the
                     mandatory internal Power-On Reset (POR) circuit.
                     If the data line (SDA) is stuck LOW, the controller should send nine clock pulses. The
                     device that held the bus LOW should release it sometime within those nine clocks. If not,
                     then use the HW reset or cycle power to clear the bus.

              3.1.17 Device ID
                     The Device ID field (see Figure 20) is an optional 3-byte read-only (24 bits) word giving
                     the following information:
                     • Twelve bits with the manufacturer name, unique per manufacturer (for example, NXP)
                     • Nine bits with the part identification, assigned by manufacturer (for example, PCA9698)
                     • Three bits with the die revision, assigned by manufacturer (for example, RevX)

                                        manufacturer            0       0       0       0       0       0       0   0    0    0     0    0


                                        part identification                             0       0       0       0   0    0    0     0    0


                                        revision                                                                              0     0    0
                                                                                                                                    002aab942

                     Figure 20. Device ID field


UM10204                                All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                         © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                         Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                    19 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                          UM10204
                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                  I C-bus specification and user manual


              The Device ID is read-only, hard-wired in the device and can be accessed as follows:
              1. START condition
                                                                2
              2. The controller sends the Reserved Device ID I C-bus address followed by the R/W bit
                 set to ‘0’ (write): ‘1111 1000’.
                                              2
              3. The controller sends the I C-bus target address of the target device it must identify.
                 The LSB is a ‘Don’t care’ value. Only one device must acknowledge this byte (the one
                                 2
                 that has the I C-bus target address).
              4. The controller sends a Re-START condition.
                 Remark: A STOP condition followed by a START condition resets the target state
                 machine and the Device ID Read cannot be performed. Also, a STOP condition or a
                 Re-START condition followed by an access to another target device resets the target
                 state machine and the Device ID Read cannot be performed.
                                                                2
              5. The controller sends the Reserved Device ID I C-bus address followed by the R/W bit
                 set to ‘1’ (read): ‘1111 1001’.
              6. The Device ID Read can be done, starting with the 12 manufacturer bits (first byte +
                 four MSBs of the second byte), followed by the nine part identification bits (four LSBs
                 of the second byte + five MSBs of the third byte), and then the three die revision bits
                 (three LSBs of the third byte).
              7. The controller ends the reading sequence by NACKing the last byte, thus resetting the
                 target device state machine and allowing the controller to send the STOP condition.
                 Remark: The reading of the Device ID can be stopped anytime by sending a NACK.
              If the controller continues to ACK the bytes after the third byte, the target rolls back to the
              first byte and keeps sending the Device ID sequence until a NACK has been detected.

              Table 5. Assigned manufacturer IDs
                                        Manufacturer bits                                                      Company
               11    10   9    8          7         6         5         4         3         2          1   0
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0   0   NXP Semiconductors
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0   1   NXP Semiconductors (reserved)
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         0         0          1   0   NXP Semiconductors (reserved)
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         0         0          1   1   NXP Semiconductors (reserved)
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         0         1          0   0   Ramtron International
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         0         1          0   1   Analog Devices
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         0         1          1   0   STMicroelectronics
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         0         1          1   1   ON Semiconductor
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         1         0          0   0   Sprintek Corporation
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         1         0          0   1   ESPROS Photonics AG
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         1         0          1   0   Fujitsu Semiconductor
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         1         0          1   1   Flir
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         1         1          0   0   O2Micro
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         1         1          0   1   Atmel
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         1         1          1   0   DIODES Incorporated
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         0         1         1          1   1   Pericom
               0     0    0    0          0         0         0         1         0         0          0   0   Marvell Semiconductor Inc

UM10204                       All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                   © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                     20 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                    UM10204
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                          I C-bus specification and user manual


                  Table 5. Assigned manufacturer IDs...continued
                                                Manufacturer bits                                                      Company
                   11    10     9      8          7         6         5         4         3         2          1   0
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         0         0          0   1   ForteMedia
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         0         0          1   0   Snaju LLC
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         0         0          1   1   Intel
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         0         1          0   0   Pericom
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         0         1          0   1   Arctic Sand Technologies
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         0         1          1   0   Micron Technology
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         0         1          1   1   Semtech Corporation
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         1         0          0   0   IDT
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         1         0          0   1   TT Electronics
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         1         0          1   0   Alien Technology
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         1         0          1   1   LAPIS semiconductor
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         1         1          0   0   Qorvo
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         1         1          0   1   Wuxi Chipown Micro-electronics
                                                                                                                       limited (Chipown)
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         1         1          1   0   KOA CORPORATION
                   0     0      0      0          0         0         0         1         1         1          1   1   Prevo Technologies, Inc.

                                                   2
              3.2 Ultra Fast-mode I C-bus protocol
                              2
                  The UFm I C-bus is a 2-wire push-pull serial bus that operates from DC to 5 MHz
                  transmitting data in one direction. It is most useful for speeds greater than 1 MHz to drive
                                                                                              2
                  LED controllers and other devices that do not need feedback. The UFm I C-bus protocol
                                               2
                  is based on the standard I C-bus protocol that consists of a START, target address,
                  command bit, ninth clock, and a STOP bit. The command bit is a ‘write’ only, and the data
                  bit on the ninth clock is driven HIGH, ignoring the ACK cycle due to the unidirectional
                  nature of the bus. The 2-wire push-pull driver consists of a UFm serial clock (USCL) and
                  serial data (USDA).
                  Target devices contain a unique address (whether it is a microcontroller, LCD driver, LED
                  controller, GPO) and operate only as receivers. An LED driver may be only a receiver
                  and can be supported by UFm, whereas a memory can both receive and transmit data
                  and is not supported by UFm.
                                  2
                  Since UFm I C-bus uses push-pull drivers, it does not have the multi-controller capability
                                                                      2
                  of the wired-AND open-drain Sm, Fm, and Fm+ I C-buses. In UFm, a controller is the
                  only device that initiates a data transfer on the bus and generates the clock signals to
                  permit that transfer. All other devices addressed are considered targets.
                                                            2
                  Table 6. Definition of UFm I C-bus terminology
                  Term                                Description
                  Transmitter                         the device that sends data to the bus
                  Receiver                            the device that receives data from the bus



UM10204                               All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                    © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                        Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                              21 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                      UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual

                                                          2
              Table 6. Definition of UFm I C-bus terminology...continued
               Term                                Description
               Controller                          the device that initiates a transfer, generates clock signals and
                                                   terminates a transfer
               Target                              the device addressed by a controller

              Let us consider the case of a data transfer between a controller and multiple targets
                                     2
              connected to the UFm I C-bus (see Figure 21).

                            Controller ASIC                                   LCD                                      LED
                                                                              DRIVER                                   controller 3




                USDA

                USCL




                                                     LED                                                LED
                                                     controller 1                                       controller 2                     GPO

                                                                                                                                                          002aag654
                                                               2
               Figure 21. Example of UFm I C-bus configuration

              This highlights the controller/transmitter-target/receiver relationship found on the UFm
               2
              I C-bus. Note that these relationships are permanent, as data transfer is only permitted in
              one direction. The transfer of data would proceed as follows:
              Suppose that the controller ASIC wants to send information to the LED controller 2:
              • ASIC A (controller-transmitter), addresses LED controller 2 (target-receiver) by sending
                the address on the USDA and generating the clock on USCL.
              • ASIC A (controller-transmitter), sends data to LED controller 2 (target-receiver) on the
                USDA and generates the clock on USCL.
              • ASIC A terminates the transfer.
                                                                                                                                        2
              The possibility of connecting more than one UFm controller to the UFm I C-bus is not
              allowed due to bus contention on the push-pull outputs. If an additional controller is
              required in the system, it must be fully isolated from the other controller (that is, with a
              true ‘one hot’ MUX) as only one controller is allowed on the bus at a time.
                                                                                        2
              Generation of clock signals on the UFm I C-bus is always the responsibility of the
              controller device, that is, the controller generates the clock signals when transferring data
              on the bus. Bus clock signals from a controller cannot be altered by a target device with
              clock stretching and the process of arbitration and clock synchronization does not exist
                               2
              within the UFm I C-bus.
                                                                                                                                                 2
              Table 7 summarizes the use of mandatory and optional portions of the UFm I C-bus
              specification.




UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                        © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                22 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                              UM10204
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                           I C-bus specification and user manual

                                                         2
                   Table 7. Applicability of I C-bus features to UFm
                   M = mandatory; O = optional; n/p = not possible
                    Feature                                            Configuration
                                                                       Single controller
                    START condition                                    M
                    STOP condition                                     M
                    Acknowledge                                        n/p
                    Synchronization                                    n/p
                    Arbitration                                        n/p
                    Clock stretching                                   n/p
                    7-bit target address                               M
                    10-bit target address                              O
                    General Call address                               O
                    Software Reset                                     O
                    START byte                                         O
                    Device ID                                          n/p


              3.2.1 USDA and USCL signals
                   Both USDA and USCL are unidirectional lines, with push-pull outputs. When the bus
                   is free, both lines are pulled HIGH by the upper transistor of the output stage. Data on
                         2
                   the I C-bus can be transferred at rates of up to 5000 kbit/s in the Ultra Fast-mode. The
                   number of interfaces connected to the bus is limited by the bus loading, reflections from
                   cable ends, connectors, and stubs.

                                                                                        VDD(IO)


                                                                                                         USCL or
                                                                                                         USDA pin




                                                                                          VSS
                                                                                                          002aag655

                    Figure 22. Simplified schematic of USCL, USDA outputs


              3.2.2 USDA and USCL logic levels
                   Due to the variety of different technology devices (CMOS, NMOS, bipolar) that can be
                                       2
                   connected to the I C-bus, the levels of the logical ‘0’ (LOW) and ‘1’ (HIGH) are not fixed
                   and depend on the associated level of VDD. Input reference levels are set as 30 % and 70
                   % of VDD; VIL is 0.3VDD and VIH is 0.7VDD. See Figure 40, timing diagram. See Section 6
                   for electrical specifications.




UM10204                                All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                         Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                         23 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                 UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual


              3.2.3 Data validity
                    The data on the USDA line must be stable during the HIGH period of the clock. The
                    HIGH or LOW state of the data line can only change when the clock signal on the USCL
                    line is LOW (see Figure 23). One clock pulse is generated for each data bit transferred.


                                       USDA



                                        USCL


                                                                        data line               change
                                                                         stable;                of data
                                                                        data valid              allowed                 002aaf113
                                                                             2
                     Figure 23. Bit transfer on the UFm I C-bus


              3.2.4 START and STOP conditions
                    Both data and clock lines remain HIGH when the bus is not busy. All transactions begin
                    with a START (S) and can be terminated by a STOP (P) (see Figure 24). A HIGH to LOW
                    transition on the USDA line while USCL is HIGH defines a START condition. A LOW to
                    HIGH transition on the USDA line while USCL is HIGH defines a STOP condition.


                             USDA



                             USCL
                                               S                                                                             P

                                    START condition                                                                    STOP condition
                                                                                                                                      002aaf145
                                                                                                                   2
                     Figure 24. Definition of START and STOP conditions for UFm I C-bus

                    START and STOP conditions are always generated by the controller. The bus is
                    considered to be busy after the START condition. The bus is considered to be free again
                    a certain time after the STOP condition. This bus free situation is specified in Section 6.
                    The bus stays busy if a repeated START (Sr) is generated instead of a STOP condition.
                    In this respect, the START (S) and repeated START (Sr) conditions are functionally
                    identical. For the remainder of this document, therefore, the S symbol is used as a
                    generic term to represent both the START and repeated START conditions, unless Sr is
                    particularly relevant.
                    Detection of START and STOP conditions by devices connected to the bus is easy if
                    they incorporate the necessary interfacing hardware. However, microcontrollers with no
                    such interface have to sample the USDA line at least twice per clock period to sense the
                    transition.

              3.2.5 Byte format
                    Every byte put on the USDA line must be eight bits long. The number of bytes that can
                    be transmitted per transfer is unrestricted. The controller drives the USDA HIGH after
                    each byte during the Acknowledge cycle. Data is transferred with the Most Significant
                    Bit (MSB) first (see Figure 25). A target is not allowed to hold the clock LOW if it cannot


UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                   © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                        Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                           24 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                    UM10204
                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                    I C-bus specification and user manual


                              receive another complete byte of data or while it is performing some other function, for
                              example servicing an internal interrupt.

                                                                                                                                                                   P
      USDA
                               MSB                                            Controller drives the line HIGH on 9th clock cycle.                                  Sr
                                                                                              Target never drives the USDA line.

      USCL       S or Sr         1     2                               8           9                       1         2                 8    9               Sr or P
                                                                                                                              3 to 7
                                                                               NACK                                                        NACK
                START or                                                                                                                                 STOP or
             repeated START                                  byte complete,                                                                          repeated START
                condition                             interrupt within target                                                                           condition
                                                                                                                                                                 002aag657
                                            2
 Figure 25. Data transfer on the UFm I C-bus


                   3.2.6 Acknowledge (ACK) and Not Acknowledge (NACK)
                              Since the targets are not able to respond the ninth clock cycle, the ACK and NACK are
                              not required. However, the clock cycle is preserved in the UFm to be compatible with the
                               2
                              I C-bus protocol. The ACK and NACK are also referred to as the ninth clock cycle. The
                              controller generates all clock pulses, including the ninth clock pulse. The ninth data bit
                              is always driven HIGH (‘1’). Target devices are not allowed to drive the SDA line at any
                              time.

                   3.2.7 The target address and R/W bit
                              Data transfers follow the format shown in Figure 26. After the START condition (S), a
                              target address is sent. This address is seven bits long followed by an eighth bit which is
                              a data direction bit (W) — a ‘zero’ indicates a transmission (WRITE); a ‘one’ indicates
                              a request for data (READ) and is not supported by UFm (except for the START byte,
                              Section 3.2.12) since the communication is unidirectional (refer to Figure 27). A data
                              transfer is always terminated by a STOP condition (P) generated by the controller.
                              However, if a controller still wishes to communicate on the bus, it can generate a
                              repeated START condition (Sr) and address another target without first generating a
                              STOP condition.



          USDA




          USCL                1-7       8         9                  1-7                 8             9                     1-7       8        9

                    S                                                                                                                                        P

                 START      ADDRESS     W    NACK                          DATA                    NACK                       DATA          NACK        STOP
                condition                                                                                                                              condition
                                                                                                                                                         002aag658

 Figure 26. A complete UFm data transfer




UM10204                                         All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                          © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                  Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                              25 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                      UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual


                                                          MSB                                                           LSB

                                                                                                                         W

                                                                                target address
                                                                                                                     002aag659

                     Figure 27. The first byte after the START procedure

                    The UFm data transfer format is:
                    • Controller-transmitter transmits to target-receiver. The transfer direction is not changed
                      (see Figure 28). The controller never acknowledges because it never receives any data
                                                                                               2
                      but generates the ‘1’ on the ninth bit for the target to conform to the I C-bus protocol.

                                       S      TARGET ADDRESS                       W         A       DATA        A      DATA     A   P

                                                                                                           data transferred
                                                                             `0' (write)             (n bytes + not acknowledge)


                                              from controller to target                                A = not acknowledge (USDA HIGH)
                                                                                                       S = START condition
                                                                                                       P = STOP condition
                                                                                                                                 002aag660

                     Figure 28. A controller-transmitter addressing a target receiver with a 7-bit address

                    Notes:
                    1. Individual transaction or repeated START formats addressing multiple targets in one
                       transaction can be used. After the START condition and target address is repeated,
                       data can be transferred.
                    2. All decisions on auto-increment or decrement of previously accessed memory
                       locations, etc., are taken by the designer of the device.
                    3. Each byte is followed by a Not-Acknowledgment bit as indicated by the A blocks in the
                       sequence.
                        2
                    4. I C-bus compatible devices must reset their bus logic on receipt of a START or
                       repeated START condition such that they all anticipate the sending of a target
                       address, even if these START conditions are not positioned according to the proper
                       format.
                    5. A START condition immediately followed by a STOP condition (void message) is an
                       illegal format. Many devices however are designed to operate properly under this
                       condition.
                    6. Each device connected to the bus is addressable by a unique address. A simple
                       controller/target relationship exists, but it is possible to have multiple identical targets
                       that can receive and respond simultaneously, for example, in a group broadcast
                       where all identical devices are configured at the same time, understanding that it is
                       impossible to determine that each target is responsive. Refer to individual component
                       data sheets.

              3.2.8 10-bit addressing
                    10-bit addressing expands the number of possible addresses. Devices with 7-bit and
                                                                   2
                    10-bit addresses can be connected to the same I C-bus, and both 7-bit and 10-bit
                    addressing can be used in all bus speed modes.
                    The 10-bit target address is formed from the first two bytes following a START condition
                    (S) or a repeated START condition (Sr). The first seven bits of the first byte are the

UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                           © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                   26 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                         UM10204
                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                             I C-bus specification and user manual


                   combination 1111 0XX of which the last two bits (XX) are the two Most Significant Bits
                   (MSBs) of the 10-bit address; the eighth bit of the first byte is the R/W bit that determines
                   the direction of the message.
                   Although there are eight possible combinations of the reserved address bits 1111 XXX,
                   only the four combinations 1111 0XX are used for 10-bit addressing. The remaining four
                                                                  2
                   combinations 1111 1XX are reserved for future I C-bus enhancements.
                   Only the write format previously described for 7-bit addressing is possible with 10-bit
                   addressing. Detailed here:
                   • Controller-transmitter transmits to target-receiver with a 10-bit target address. The
                     transfer direction is not changed (see Figure 29). When a 10-bit address follows a
                     START condition, each target compares the first seven bits of the first byte of the target
                     address (1111 0XX) with its own address and tests if the eighth bit (R/W direction bit)
                     is 0 (W). All targets that found a match compare the eight bits of the second byte of
                     the target address (XXXX XXXX) with their own addresses, but only one target finds
                     a match. The matching target remains addressed by the controller until it receives a
                     STOP condition (P) or a repeated START condition (Sr) followed by a different target
                     address.

                                       1 1 1 1 0 X X                0
                                    TARGET ADDRESS                               TARGET ADDRESS
                                  S                W                        A                   A                       DATA   A       DATA NA      P
                                        1st 7 BITS                                  2nd BYTE


                                                                 (write)                                                                     002aag661

                    Figure 29. A controller-transmitter addresses a target-receiver with a 10-bit address

                   The START byte 0000 0001 (01h) can precede the 10-bit addressing in the same way as
                   for 7-bit addressing (see Section 3.2.12).

              3.2.9 Reserved addresses in UFm
                                  2                                                                                                2
                   The UFm I C-bus has a different physical layer than the other I C-bus modes. Therefore
                   the available target address range is different. Two groups of eight addresses (0000 XXX
                   and 1111 XXX) are reserved for the purposes shown in Table 8.

                   Table 8. Reserved addresses
                   X = don’t care; 1 = HIGH; 0 = LOW.
                    Target address               R/W bit                   Description
                                                                                                                  [1]
                    0000 000                     0                         general call address
                                                                                                  [2]
                    0000 000                     1                         START byte
                    0000 001                     X                         reserved for future purposes
                    0000 010                     X                         reserved for future purposes
                    0000 011                     X                         reserved for future purposes
                    0000 1XX                     X                         reserved for future purposes
                    1111 1XX                     X                         reserved for future purposes
                    1111 0XX                     X                         10-bit target addressing

                   [1]   The general call address is used for several functions including software reset.
                   [2]   No UFm device is allowed to acknowledge at the reception of the START byte.



UM10204                                  All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                       © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                           Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                    27 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                            UM10204
                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                         I C-bus specification and user manual


                     Assignment of addresses within a local system is up to the system architect who must
                     take into account the devices being used on the bus and any future interaction with
                     reserved addresses. For example, a device with seven user-assignable address pins
                     allows all 128 addresses to be assigned. If it is known that the reserved address is never
                     going to be used for its intended purpose, then a reserved address can be used for a
                     target address.

              3.2.10 General call address
                                                                                                                                                  2
                     The general call address is for addressing every device connected to the I C-bus at
                     the same time. However, if a device does not need any of the data supplied within the
                     general call structure, it can ignore this address. If a device does require data from a
                     general call address, it behaves as a target-receiver. The controller does not actually
                     know how many devices are responsive to the general call. The second and following
                     bytes are received by every target-receiver capable of handling this data. A target that
                     cannot process one of these bytes must ignore it. The meaning of the general call
                     address is always specified in the second byte (see Figure 30).

                                                                                                                                LSB

                                                0    0     0    0     0    0    0     0    A     X X        X X X      X    X    B    A

                                                           first byte                                         second byte
                                                     (general call address)                                                     002aag662

                      Figure 30. General call address format

                     There are two cases to consider:
                     • When the least significant bit B is a ‘zero’
                     • When the least significant bit B is a ‘one’
                     When bit B is a ‘zero’, the second byte has the following definition:
                     0000 0110 (06h)
                     Reset and write programmable part of target address by hardware. On receiving this 2-
                     byte sequence, all devices designed to respond to the general call address reset and
                     take in the programmable part of their address.
                     0000 0100 (04h)
                     Write programmable part of target address by hardware. Behaves as above, but the
                     device does not reset.
                     0000 0000 (00h)
                     This code is not allowed to be used as the second byte. Sequences of programming
                     procedure are published in the appropriate device data sheets. The remaining codes
                     have not been fixed and devices must ignore them.
                     When bit B is a ‘one’, the 2-byte sequence is ignored.

              3.2.11 Software reset
                     Following a General Call, (0000 0000), sending 0000 0110 (06h) as the second byte
                     causes a software reset. This feature is optional and not all devices respond to this
                     command. On receiving this 2-byte sequence, all devices designed to respond to the
                     general call address reset and take in the programmable part of their address.

UM10204                              All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                             © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                         Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                      28 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                    UM10204
                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                          I C-bus specification and user manual


              3.2.12 START byte
                                                                                           2
                     Microcontrollers can be connected to the I C-bus in two ways. A microcontroller with
                                            2
                     an on-chip hardware I C-bus interface can be programmed to be only interrupted
                     by requests from the bus. When the device does not have such an interface, it must
                     constantly monitor the bus via software. Obviously, the more times the microcontroller
                     monitors, or polls the bus, the less time it can spend carrying out its intended function.
                     There is therefore a speed difference between fast hardware devices and a relatively
                     slow microcontroller which relies on software polling.
                     In this case, data transfer can be preceded by a start procedure which is much longer
                     than normal (see Figure 31). The start procedure consists of:
                     • A START condition (S)
                     • A START byte (0000 0001)
                     • A Not Acknowledge clock pulse (NACK)
                     • A repeated START condition (Sr)



                                 USDA                                                                                   dummy
                                                                                                                      acknowledge
                                                                                                                         (HIGH)


                                 USCL                          1               2                      7           8        9

                                           S                                                                             NACK       Sr

                                                                            START byte 0000 0001                                    002aag663

                      Figure 31. START byte procedure

                     After the START condition S has been transmitted by a controller which requires bus
                     access, the START byte (0000 0001) is transmitted. Another microcontroller can
                     therefore sample the USDA line at a low sampling rate until one of the seven zeros in
                     the START byte is detected. After detection of this LOW level on the USDA line, the
                     microcontroller can switch to a higher sampling rate to find the repeated START condition
                     Sr, which is then used for synchronization. A hardware receiver resets upon receipt of the
                     repeated START condition Sr and therefore ignores the START byte. An acknowledge-
                     related clock pulse is generated after the START byte. This is present only to conform
                     with the byte handling format used on the bus. No device is allowed to acknowledge the
                     START byte.

              3.2.13 Unresponsive target reset
                     In the unlikely event where the target becomes unresponsive (for example, determined
                                                                    2
                     through external feedback, not through UFm I C-bus), the preferential procedure is to
                     reset the target by using the software reset command or the hardware reset signal. If
                     the targets do not support these features, then cycle power to the devices to activate the
                     mandatory internal Power-On Reset (POR) circuit.

              3.2.14 Device ID
                     The Device ID field is not supported in UFm.



UM10204                              All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                     © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                       Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                              29 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                               UM10204
                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                            I C-bus specification and user manual

                                2
4         Other uses of the I C-bus communications protocol
                          2
                     The I C-bus is used as the communications protocol for several system architectures.
                     These architectures have added command sets and application-specific extensions in
                                           2
                     addition to the base I C specification.
                                               2
                     In general, simple I C-bus devices such as I/O extenders could be used in any one of
                     these architectures since the protocol and physical interfaces are the same.

                 4.1 CBUS compatibility
                                                                                                                     2
                     CBUS receivers can be connected to the Standard-mode I C-bus. However, a third bus
                     line called DLEN must then be connected and the acknowledge bit omitted. Normally,
                      2
                     I C transmissions are sequences of 8-bit bytes; CBUS compatible devices have different
                     formats.
                                                             2
                     In a mixed bus structure, I C-bus devices must not respond to the CBUS message. For
                                                                                    2
                     this reason, a special CBUS address (0000 001X) to which no I C-bus compatible device
                     responds has been reserved. After transmission of the CBUS address, the DLEN line
                     can be made active and a CBUS-format transmission sent. After the STOP condition, all
                     devices are again ready to accept data.
                     Controller-transmitters can send CBUS formats after sending the CBUS address. The
                     transmission is ended by a STOP condition, recognized by all devices.
                     Remark: If the CBUS configuration is known, and expansion with CBUS compatible
                     devices is not foreseen, the designer is allowed to adapt the hold time to the specific
                     requirements of the device(s) used.

                 4.2 SMBus - System Management Bus
                                             2                                     2
                     The SMBus uses I C hardware and I C hardware addressing, but adds second-level
                     software for building special systems. In particular, its specifications include an Address
                     Resolution Protocol that can make dynamic address allocations.
                     Dynamic reconfiguration of the hardware and software allow bus devices to be ‘hot-
                     plugged’ and used immediately, without restarting the system. The devices are
                     recognized automatically and assigned unique addresses. This advantage results in a
                     plug-and-play user interface. In both those protocols, there is a very useful distinction
                     made between a System Host and all the other devices in the system that can have the
                     names and functions of controllers or targets.
                     SMBus is used today as a system management bus in most PCs. Developed by Intel
                                                            2
                     and others in 1995, it modified some I C electrical and software characteristics for better
                     compatibility with the quickly decreasing power supply budget of portable equipment.
                     SMBus also has a ‘High Power’ version 2.0 that includes a 4 mA sink current that cannot
                                   2                                                 2
                     be driven by I C chips unless the pull-up resistor is sized to I C-bus levels.

                     2
               4.2.1 I C/SMBus compliancy
                                    2
                     SMBus and I C protocols are basically the same: A SMBus controller is able to control
                      2
                     I C devices and vice versa at the protocol level. The SMBus clock is defined from 10 kHz
                                       2
                     to 100 kHz while I C can be 0 Hz to 100 kHz, 0 Hz to 400 kHz, 0 Hz to 1 MHz and 0 Hz
                                                                              2
                     to 3.4 MHz, depending on the mode. This means that an I C-bus running at less than 10
                     kHz is not SMBus compliant since the SMBus devices may time-out.

UM10204                                 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                          Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                          30 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                           UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual


                    Logic levels are slightly different also: TTL for SMBus: LOW = 0.8 V and HIGH = 2.1 V,
                                                                   2
                    versus the 30 %/70 % VDD CMOS level for I C. This is not a problem if VDD > 3.0 V. If the
                     2
                    I C device is below 3.0 V, then there could be a problem if the logic HIGH/LOW levels are
                    not properly recognized.

              4.2.2 Time-out feature
                    SMBus has a time-out feature which resets devices if a communication takes too long.
                    This explains the minimum clock frequency of 10 kHz to prevent locking up the bus.
                     2
                    I C can be a ‘DC’ bus, meaning that a target device stretches the controller clock when
                    performing some routine while the controller is accessing it. This notifies the controller
                    that the target is busy but does not want to lose the communication. The target device
                                                                                                  2
                    will allow continuation after its task is complete. There is no limit in the I C-bus protocol
                    as to how long this delay can be, whereas for a SMBus system, it would be limited to 35
                    ms.
                    SMBus protocol just assumes that if something takes too long, then it means that there is
                    a problem on the bus and that all devices must reset in order to clear this mode. Target
                    devices are not then allowed to hold the clock LOW too long.

              4.2.3 Differences between SMBus 1.0 and SMBus 2.0
                    The SMBus specification defines two classes of electrical characteristics: low power and
                    high power. The first class, originally defined in the SMBus 1.0 and 1.1 specifications,
                    was designed primarily with Smart Batteries in mind, but could be used with other low-
                    power devices.
                    The 2.0 version introduces an alternative higher power set of electrical characteristics.
                    This class is appropriate for use when higher drive capability is required, for example
                    with SMBus devices on PCI add-in cards and for connecting such cards across the PCI
                    connector between each other and to SMBus devices on the system board.
                    Devices may be powered by the bus VDD or by another power source, VBus (as with, for
                    example, Smart Batteries), and will inter-operate as long as they adhere to the SMBus
                    electrical specifications for their class.
                    NXP devices have a higher power set of electrical characteristics than SMBus 1.0. The
                    main difference is the current sink capability with VOL = 0.4 V.
                    • SMBus low power = 350 μA
                    • SMBus high power = 4 mA
                       2
                    • I C-bus = 3 mA
                                                                          2
                    SMBus ‘high power’ devices and I C-bus devices will work together if the pull-up resistor
                    is sized for 3 mA.
                    For more information, refer to: http://www.smbus.org/.

               4.3 PMBus - Power Management Bus
                    PMBus is a standard way to communicate between power converters and a system host
                    over the SMBus to provide more intelligent control of the power converters. The PMBus
                    specification defines a standard set of device commands so that devices from multiple
                    sources function identically. PMBus devices use the SMBus Version 1.1 plus extensions
                    for transport.
                    For more information, refer to: https://pmbus.org/.
UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                      31 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                         UM10204
                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                      I C-bus specification and user manual


              4.4 Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI)
                  Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI) defines a standardized, abstracted,
                  message-based interface for intelligent platform management hardware. IPMI also
                  defines standardized records for describing platform management devices and their
                  characteristics. IPMI increases reliability of systems by monitoring parameters such as
                  temperatures, voltages, fans and chassis intrusion.
                  IPMI provides general system management functions such as automatic alerting,
                  automatic system shutdown and restart, remote restart and power control. The
                  standardized interface to intelligent platform management hardware aids in prediction
                  and early monitoring of hardware failures as well as diagnosis of hardware problems.
                  This standardized bus and protocol for extending management control, monitoring, and
                  event delivery within the chassis:
                    2
                  • I C based
                  • Multi-controller
                  • Simple Request/Response Protocol
                  • Uses IPMI Command sets
                  • Supports non-IPMI devices
                                2
                  • Physically I C but write-only (controller capable devices); hot swap not required
                  • Enables the Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) to accept IPMI request
                    messages from other management controllers in the system
                  • Allows non-intelligent devices as well as management controllers on the bus
                  • BMC serves as a controller to give system software access to IPMB.
                  Hardware implementation is isolated from software implementation so that new sensors
                  and events can then be added without any software changes.
                  For more information, refer to: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/products/docs/
                  servers/ipmi/ipmi-home.html.

              4.5 Advanced Telecom Computing Architecture (ATCA)
                  Advanced Telecom Computing Architecture (ATCA) is a follow-on to Compact PCI (cPCI),
                  providing a standardized form-factor with larger card area, larger pitch and larger power
                  supply for use in advanced rack-mounted telecom hardware. It includes a fault-tolerant
                                                               2
                  scheme for thermal management that uses I C-bus communications between boards.
                  Advanced Telecom Computing Architecture (ATCA) is backed by more than 100
                  companies including many of the large players such as Intel, Lucent, and Motorola.
                  There are two general compliant approaches to an ATCA-compliant fan control: the first
                  is an Intelligent FRU (Field Replaceable Unit) which means that the fan control would be
                  directly connected to the IPMB (Intelligent Platform Management Bus); the second is a
                  Managed or Non-intelligent FRU.
                                                                                                                                           2
                  One requirement is the inclusion of hardware and software to manage the dual I C-
                  buses. This requires an on-board isolated supply to power the circuitry, a buffered dual
                   2                                                                  2
                  I C-bus with rise time accelerators, and 3-state capability. The I C controller must be able
                                                 2
                  to support a multi-controller I C dual bus and handle the standard set of fan commands
                  outlined in the protocol. In addition, on-board temperature reporting, tray capability
                  reporting, fan turn-off capabilities, and non-volatile storage are required.
                  For more information, refer to: https://www.picmg.org/openstandards/advancedtca/.

UM10204                           All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                    Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                    32 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                           UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual


                4.6 Display Data Channel (DDC)
                    The Display Data Channel (DDC) allows a monitor or display to inform the host about its
                    identity and capabilities. The specification for DDC version 2 calls for compliance with
                         2
                    the I C-bus standard mode specification. It allows bidirectional communication between
                    the display and the host, enabling control of monitor functions such as how images are
                                                                                        2
                    displayed and communication with other devices attached to the I C-bus.
                    For more information, refer to: https://vesa.org/.

5         Bus speeds
                                   2
                    Originally, the I C-bus was limited to 100 kbit/s operation. Over time there have been
                    several additions to the specification so that there are now five operating speed
                    categories. Standard-mode, Fast-mode (Fm), Fast-mode Plus (Fm+), and High-speed
                    mode (Hs-mode) devices are downward-compatible — any device may be operated at
                    a lower bus speed. Ultra Fast-mode devices are not compatible with previous versions
                    since the bus is unidirectional.
                    • Bidirectional bus:
                      – Standard-mode (Sm), with a bit rate up to 100 kbit/s
                      – Fast-mode (Fm), with a bit rate up to 400 kbit/s
                      – Fast-mode Plus (Fm+), with a bit rate up to 1 Mbit/s
                      – High-speed mode (Hs-mode), with a bit rate up to 3.4 Mbit/s.
                    • Unidirectional bus:
                      – Ultra Fast-mode (UFm), with a bit rate up to 5 Mbit/s

                5.1 Fast-mode
                    Fast-mode devices can receive and transmit at up to 400 kbit/s. The minimum
                    requirement is that they can synchronize with a 400 kbit/s transfer; they can then prolong
                    the LOW period of the SCL signal to slow down the transfer. The protocol, format, logic
                    levels and maximum capacitive load for the SDA and SCL lines are the same as the
                                     2
                    Standard-mode I C-bus specification. Fast-mode devices are downward-compatible
                                                                                             2
                    and can communicate with Standard-mode devices in a 0 to 100 kbit/s I C-bus system.
                    As Standard-mode devices, however, are not upward compatible; they should not be
                                                  2
                    incorporated in a Fast-mode I C-bus system as they cannot follow the higher transfer
                    rate and unpredictable states would occur.
                                       2
                    The Fast-mode I C-bus specification has the following additional features compared with
                    the Standard-mode:
                    • The maximum bit rate is increased to 400 kbit/s.
                    • Timing of the serial data (SDA) and serial clock (SCL) signals has been adapted. There
                      is no need for compatibility with other bus systems such as CBUS because they cannot
                      operate at the increased bit rate.
                    • The inputs of Fast-mode devices incorporate spike suppression and a Schmitt trigger at
                      the SDA and SCL inputs.
                    • The output buffers of Fast-mode devices incorporate slope control of the falling edges
                      of the SDA and SCL signals.
                    • If the power supply to a Fast-mode device is switched off, the SDA and SCL I/O pins
                      must be floating so that they do not obstruct the bus lines.


UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                      33 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                          UM10204
                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                       I C-bus specification and user manual


                    The external pull-up devices connected to the bus lines must be adapted to
                                                                                                  2
                    accommodate the shorter maximum permissible rise time for the Fast-mode I C-bus.
                    For bus loads up to 200 pF, the pull-up device for each bus line can be a resistor; for
                    bus loads between 200 pF and 400 pF, the pull-up device can be a current source (3 mA
                    max.) or a switched resistor circuit (see Section 7.2.4).

               5.2 Fast-mode Plus
                                                                                                                2
                    Fast-mode Plus (Fm+) devices offer an increase in I C-bus transfer speeds and total bus
                    capacitance. Fm+ devices can transfer information at bit rates of up to 1 Mbit/s, yet they
                    remain fully downward compatible with Fast- or Standard-mode devices for bidirectional
                    communication in a mixed-speed bus system. The same serial bus protocol and data
                    format is maintained as with the Fast- or Standard-mode system. Fm+ devices also offer
                    increased drive current over Fast- or Standard-mode devices allowing them to drive
                    longer and/or more heavily loaded buses so that bus buffers do not need to be used.
                    The drivers in Fast-mode Plus parts are strong enough to satisfy the Fast-mode Plus
                    timing specification with the same 400 pF load as Standard-mode parts. To be backward
                    compatible with Standard-mode, they are also tolerant of the 1 μs rise time of Standard-
                    mode parts. In applications where only Fast-mode Plus parts are present, the high drive
                    strength and tolerance for slow rise and fall times allow the use of larger bus capacitance
                    as long as set-up, minimum LOW time and minimum HIGH time for Fast-mode Plus
                    are all satisfied and the fall time and rise time do not exceed the 300 ns tf and 1 μs tr
                    specifications of Standard-mode. Bus speed can be traded against load capacitance to
                    increase the maximum capacitance by about a factor of ten.

               5.3 Hs-mode
                                                                                                                    2
                    High-speed mode (Hs-mode) devices offer a quantum leap in I C-bus transfer speeds.
                    Hs-mode devices can transfer information at bit rates of up to 3.4 Mbit/s, yet they remain
                    fully downward compatible with Fast-mode Plus, Fast- or Standard-mode (F/S) devices
                    for bidirectional communication in a mixed-speed bus system. With the exception that
                    arbitration and clock synchronization is not performed during the Hs-mode transfer, the
                    same serial bus protocol and data format is maintained as with the F/S-mode system.

              5.3.1 High speed transfer
                    To achieve a bit transfer of up to 3.4 Mbit/s, the following improvements have been made
                                    2
                    to the regular I C-bus specification:
                    • Hs-mode controller devices have an open-drain output buffer for the SDAH signal and
                      a combination of an open-drain pull-down and current-source pull-up circuit on the
                      SCLH output. This current-source circuit shortens the rise time of the SCLH signal.
                      Only the current-source of one controller is enabled at any one time, and only during
                      Hs-mode.
                    • No arbitration or clock synchronization is performed during Hs-mode transfer in multi-
                      controller systems, which speeds-up bit handling capabilities. The arbitration procedure
                      always finishes after a preceding controller code transmission in F/S-mode.
                    • Hs-mode controller devices generate a serial clock signal with a HIGH to LOW ratio of
                      1 to 2. This relieves the timing requirements for set-up and hold times.
                    • As an option, Hs-mode controller devices can have a built-in bridge. During Hs-mode
                      transfer, the high-speed data (SDAH) and high-speed serial clock (SCLH) lines of Hs-
                      mode devices are separated by this bridge from the SDA and SCL lines of F/S-mode

UM10204                            All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                     Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                     34 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                             UM10204
                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual


                                   devices. This reduces the capacitive load of the SDAH and SCLH lines resulting in
                                   faster rise and fall times.
                                 • The only difference between Hs-mode target devices and F/S-mode target devices is
                                   the speed at which they operate. Hs-mode targets have open-drain output buffers on
                                   the SCLH and SDAH outputs. Optional pull-down transistors on the SCLH pin can be
                                   used to stretch the LOW level of the SCLH signal, although this is only allowed after the
                                   acknowledge bit in Hs-mode transfers.
                                 • The inputs of Hs-mode devices incorporate spike suppression and a Schmitt trigger at
                                   the SDAH and SCLH inputs.
                                 • The output buffers of Hs-mode devices incorporate slope control of the falling edges of
                                   the SDAH and SCLH signals.
                                                                                2
                                 Figure 32 shows the physical I C-bus configuration in a system with only Hs-mode
                                 devices. Pins SDA and SCL on the controller devices are only used in mixed-speed bus
                                 systems and are not connected in an Hs-mode only system. In such cases, these pins
                                 can be used for other functions.
                                                                                                                                       2
                                 Optional series resistors Rs protect the I/O stages of the I C-bus devices from high-
                                 voltage spikes on the bus lines and minimize ringing and interference.
                                 Pull-up resistors Rp maintain the SDAH and SCLH lines at a HIGH level when the bus
                                 is free and ensure that the signals are pulled up from a LOW to a HIGH level within the
                                 required rise time. For higher capacitive bus-line loads (>100 pF), the resistor Rp can be
                                 replaced by external current source pull-ups to meet the rise time requirements. Unless
                                 proceeded by an acknowledge bit, the rise time of the SCLH clock pulses in Hs-mode
                                 transfers is shortened by the internal current-source pull-up circuit MCS of the active
                                 controller.

                                  VDD


                                                                     Rp                   Rp
                                 SDAH


                                 SCLH


                           Rs       Rs           Rs         Rs                    Rs            Rs                                      Rs        Rs
                                                                                                       (1)        (1)                                  (1)       (1)

                   SDAH     SCLH         SDAH    SCLH                SDAH           SCLH         SDA         SCL               SDAH        SCLH   SDA        SCL


                   (2)     (2)           (2)     (2)                (2)             (2)                                        (2)         (2)

                                                                                                         MCS                                             MCS
                                   (4)                     (4)                                                  (3)                                             (3)
                                                                                                             VDD                                             VDD

                            VSS                  VSS                  VSS                                                       VSS

                         TARGET                TARGET                       CONTROLLER/TARGET                                        CONTROLLER/TARGET
                                                                                                                                                             msc612

 1.   SDA and SCL are not used here but may be used for other functions.
 2.   To input filter.
 3.   Only the active controller can enable its current-source pull-up circuit.
 4.   Dotted transistors are optional open-drain outputs which can stretch the serial clock signal SCLH.
               2
 Figure 32. I C-bus configuration with Hs-mode devices only




UM10204                                           All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                                 © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                       35 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                            UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual


              5.3.2 Serial data format in Hs-mode
                                                                                                                        2
                    Serial data transfer format in Hs-mode meets the Standard-mode I C-bus specification.
                    Hs-mode can only commence after the following conditions (all of which are in F/S-
                    mode):
                    1. START condition (S)
                    2. 8-bit controller code (0000 1XXX)
                    3. Not-acknowledge bit (A)
                    Figure 33 and Figure 34 show this in more detail. This controller code has two main
                    functions:
                    • It allows arbitration and synchronization between competing controllers at F/S-mode
                      speeds, resulting in one winning controller.
                    • It indicates the beginning of an Hs-mode transfer.
                    Hs-mode controller codes are reserved 8-bit codes, which are not used for target
                    addressing or other purposes. Furthermore, as each controller has its own unique
                                                                                                2
                    controller code, up to eight Hs-mode controllers can be present on the one I C-
                    bus system (although controller code 0000 1000 should be reserved for test and
                    diagnostic purposes). The controller code for an Hs-mode controller device is software
                    programmable and is chosen by the System Designer.
                    Arbitration and clock synchronization only take place during the transmission of the
                    controller code and not-acknowledge bit (A), after which one winning controller remains
                    active. The controller code indicates to other devices that an Hs-mode transfer is to
                    begin and the connected devices must meet the Hs-mode specification. As no device
                    is allowed to acknowledge the controller code, the controller code is followed by a not-
                    acknowledge (A).
                    After the not-acknowledge bit (A), and the SCLH line has been pulled-up to a HIGH level,
                    the active controller switches to Hs-mode and enables (at time tH, see Figure 34) the
                    current-source pull-up circuit for the SCLH signal. As other devices can delay the serial
                    transfer before tH by stretching the LOW period of the SCLH signal, the active controller
                    enables its current-source pull-up circuit when all devices have released the SCLH line
                    and the SCLH signal has reached a HIGH level, thus speeding up the last part of the rise
                    time of the SCLH signal.
                    The active controller then sends a repeated START condition (Sr) followed by a 7-bit
                    target address (or 10-bit target address, see Section 3.1.11) with a R/W bit address, and
                    receives an acknowledge bit (A) from the selected target.
                    After a repeated START condition and after each acknowledge bit (A) or not-
                    acknowledge bit (A), the active controller disables its current-source pull-up circuit. This
                    enables other devices to delay the serial transfer by stretching the LOW period of the
                    SCLH signal. The active controller re-enables its current-source pull-up circuit again
                    when all devices have released and the SCLH signal reaches a HIGH level, and so
                    speeds up the last part of the SCLH signal’s rise time.
                    Data transfer continues in Hs-mode after the next repeated START (Sr), and only
                    switches back to F/S-mode after a STOP condition (P). To reduce the overhead of the
                    controller code, it is possible that a controller links a number of Hs-mode transfers,
                    separated by repeated START conditions (Sr).




UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                      36 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                                        UM10204
                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                   I C-bus specification and user manual


                                                           F/S-mode                             Hs-mode (current-source for SCLH enabled)                                          F/S-mode


                                          S   CONTROLLER CODE A                      Sr TARGET ADD. R/W                      A                  DATA              A/A P


                                                                                                                                           (n bytes + ack.)
                                                                                                                                                                           Hs-mode continues


                                                                                                                                                                         Sr TARGET ADD.
                                                                                                                                                                                           msc616

                                     Figure 33. Data transfer format in Hs-mode




                                                                                                                                                              A    t1
                                                                       8-bit controller code 0000 1xxx
                       S                                                                                                                                                           tH

          SDA high




          SCL high                            1                       2 to 5                            6                  7                    8             9


                                                                                             F/S mode




                                                  7-bit SLA                    R/W        A                      n + (8-bit data           +        A/A)
                                Sr                                                                                                                                Sr P


          SDA high



          SCL high                       1        2 to 5        6       7        8       9          1         2 to 5           6       7    8        9

                                                                                                                                                                         If P then
                                                                                              HS mode                                                                    F/S mode
                                                                                                                                                                         If Sr (dotted lines)
                                                                                                                                                                         then HS mode
                           tH
                                                                                                                                                                  tFS
                 = Controller current source pull-up
                                                                                                                                                                                        msc618

                 = Resistor pull-up

 Figure 34. A complete Hs-mode transfer


                     5.3.3 Switching from F/S-mode to Hs-mode and back
                                     After reset and initialization, Hs-mode devices must be in Fast-mode (which is in effect
                                     F/S-mode, as Fast-mode is downward compatible with Standard-mode). Each Hs-mode
                                     device can switch from Fast-mode to Hs-mode and back and is controlled by the serial
                                                      2
                                     transfer on the I C-bus.
                                     Before time t1 in Figure 34, each connected device operates in Fast-mode. Between
                                     times t1 and tH (this time interval can be stretched by any device) each connected device
                                     must recognize the ‘S 00001XXX A’ sequence and has to switch its internal circuit from
                                     the Fast-mode setting to the Hs-mode setting. Between times t1 and tH, the connected
                                     controller and target devices perform this switching by the following actions.

UM10204                                                      All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                                   © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                                 Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                    37 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                          UM10204
                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                       I C-bus specification and user manual


                   The active (winning) controller:
                   1. Adapts its SDAH and SCLH input filters according to the spike suppression
                      requirement in Hs-mode.
                   2. Adapts the set-up and hold times according to the Hs-mode requirements.
                   3. Adapts the slope control of its SDAH and SCLH output stages according to the Hs-
                      mode requirement.
                   4. Switches to the Hs-mode bit-rate, which is required after time tH.
                   5. Enables the current source pull-up circuit of its SCLH output stage at time tH.
                   The non-active, or losing controllers:
                   1. Adapt their SDAH and SCLH input filters according to the spike suppression
                      requirement in Hs-mode.
                   2. Wait for a STOP condition to detect when the bus is free again.
                   All targets:
                   1. Adapt their SDAH and SCLH input filters according to the spike suppression
                      requirement in Hs-mode.
                   2. Adapt the set-up and hold times according to the Hs-mode requirements. This
                      requirement may already be fulfilled by the adaptation of the input filters.
                   3. Adapt the slope control of their SDAH output stages, if necessary. For target devices,
                      slope control is applicable for the SDAH output stage only and, depending on circuit
                      tolerances, both the Fast-mode and Hs-mode requirements may be fulfilled without
                      switching its internal circuit.
                   At time tFS in Figure 34, each connected device must recognize the STOP condition (P)
                   and switch its internal circuit from the Hs-mode setting back to the Fast-mode setting
                   as present before time t1. This must be completed within the minimum bus free time as
                   specified in Table 10 according to the Fast-mode specification.

              5.3.4 Hs-mode devices at lower speed modes
                   Hs-mode devices are fully downwards compatible, and can be connected to an F/S-
                          2
                   mode I C-bus system (see Figure 35). As no controller code is transmitted in such a
                   configuration, all Hs-mode controller devices stay in F/S-mode and communicate at F/S-
                   mode speeds with their current-source disabled. The SDAH and SCLH pins are used to
                   connect to the F/S-mode bus system, allowing the SDA and SCL pins (if present) on the
                   Hs-mode controller device to be used for other functions.




UM10204                            All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                     Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                     38 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                      UM10204
                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                          I C-bus specification and user manual


                          VDD


                                                             Rp                                      Rp

                         SDA


                          SCL


                  Rs         Rs            Rs        Rs                  Rs            Rs                                        Rs      Rs            Rs           Rs
                                                                                               (1)         (1)

          SDAH     SCLH            SDAH     SCLH            SDAH           SCLH         SDA          SCL              SDA          SCL          SDA          SCL


          (2)     (2)              (2)     (2)              (2)           (2)                                       (2)          (2)          (2)      (2)

                                                                                                     (3)
                           (4)                     (4)                                                                                                             (4)
                                                                                                  VDD

                   VSS                      VSS              VSS                                                     VSS                                VSS

                Hs-mode                  Hs-mode                        Hs-mode                                       F/S-mode                      F/S-mode
                TARGET                   TARGET                    CONTROLLER/TARGET                             CONTROLLER/TARGET                  TARGET          msc613

 1.   Bridge not used. SDA and SCL may have an alternative function.
 2.   To input filter.
 3.   The current-source pull-up circuit stays disabled.
 4.   Dotted transistors are optional open-drain outputs which can stretch the serial clock signal SCL.
 Figure 35. Hs-mode devices at F/S-mode speed


                  5.3.5 Mixed speed modes on one serial bus system
                                 If a system has a combination of Hs-mode, Fast-mode and/or Standard-mode devices,
                                 it is possible, by using an interconnection bridge, to have different bit rates between
                                 different devices (see Figure 36 and Figure 37).
                                 One bridge is required to connect/disconnect an Hs-mode section to/from an F/S-mode
                                 section at the appropriate time. This bridge includes a level shift function that allows
                                 devices with different supply voltages to be connected. For example F/S-mode devices
                                 with a VDD2 of 5 V can be connected to Hs-mode devices with a VDD1 of 3 V or less
                                 (that is, where VDD2 ≥ VDD1), provided SDA and SCL pins are 5 V tolerant. This bridge
                                 is incorporated in Hs-mode controller devices and is completely controlled by the serial
                                 signals SDAH, SCLH, SDA and SCL. Such a bridge can be implemented in any IC as an
                                 autonomous circuit.
                                 TR1, TR2 and TR3 are N-channel transistors. TR1 and TR2 have a transfer gate
                                 function, and TR3 is an open-drain pull-down stage. If TR1 or TR2 are switched on they
                                 transfer a LOW level in both directions, otherwise when both the drain and source rise to
                                 a HIGH level there is a high-impedance between the drain and source of each switched-
                                 on transistor. In the latter case, the transistors act as a level shifter as SDAH and SCLH
                                 are pulled-up to VDD1 and SDA and SCL are pulled-up to VDD2.
                                 During F/S-mode speed, a bridge on one of the Hs-mode controllers connects the
                                 SDAH and SCLH lines to the corresponding SDA and SCL lines thus permitting Hs-
                                 mode devices to communicate with F/S-mode devices at slower speeds. Arbitration and
                                 synchronization are possible during the total F/S-mode transfer between all connected
                                 devices as described in Section 3.1.7. During Hs-mode transfer, however, the bridge
                                 opens to separate the two bus sections and allows Hs-mode devices to communicate
                                 with each other at 3.4 Mbit/s. Arbitration between Hs-mode devices and F/S-mode
                                 devices is only performed during the controller code (0000 1XXX), and normally won by
UM10204                                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                          © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                       Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                  39 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                                    UM10204
                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                 I C-bus specification and user manual


                                   one Hs-mode controller as no target address has four leading zeros. Other controllers
                                   can win the arbitration only if they send a reserved 8-bit code (0000 0XXX). In such
                                   cases, the bridge remains closed and the transfer proceeds in F/S-mode. Table 9 gives
                                   the possible communication speeds in such a system.

                 VDD1                                                                                                                                       VDD2


                                        Rp         Rp                                                               BRIDGE                                                Rp               Rp
                SDAH                                                         Rs      SDAH                                    TR1                    SDA



                SCLH                                                         Rs       SCLH                                  TR2                     SCL


          Rs        Rs            Rs          Rs           Rs          Rs                                                                                   Rs      Rs              Rs           Rs
                                                                                                                                          TR3
                                                                              (1)         (1)

 SDAH     SCLH            SDAH     SCLH            SDAH     SCLH        SDA         SCL                                     VSS                       SDA     SCL            SDA         SCL


 (2)      (2)             (2)     (2)              (2)      (2)                                  (2)          (2)                                   (2)     (2)          (2)         (2)
                                                                               MCS                                                MCS
                  (4)                        (4)                                      (3)                                                 (3)                                                   (4)
                                                                                    VDD                                             VDD

          VSS                      VSS              VSS                                           VSS                                                       VSS                       VSS

       Hs-mode                  Hs-mode                       Hs-mode                                       Hs-mode                                  F/S-mode                   F/S-mode
       TARGET                   TARGET                   CONTROLLER/TARGET                             CONTROLLER/TARGET                        CONTROLLER/TARGET               TARGET
                                                                                                                                                                                                msc614

 1.    Bridge not used. SDA and SCL may have an alternative function.
 2.    To input filter.
 3.    Only the active controller can enable its current-source pull-up circuit.
 4.    Dotted transistors are optional open-drain outputs which can stretch the serial clock signal SCL or SCLH.
 Figure 36. Bus system with transfer at Hs-mode and F/S-mode speeds



                                   Table 9. Communication bit rates in a mixed-speed bus system
                                   Transfer between                       Serial bus system configuration
                                                                          Hs + Fast +                        Hs + Fast                          Hs + Standard            Fast + Standard
                                                                          Standard
                                   Hs ↔ Hs                                0 to 3.4 Mbit/s                    0 to 3.4 Mbit/s                    0 to 3.4 Mbit/s          -
                                   Hs ↔ Fast                              0 to 100 kbit/s                    0 to 400 kbit/s                    -                        -
                                   Hs ↔ Standard                          0 to 100 kbit/s                    -                                  0 to 100 kbit/s          -
                                   Fast ↔ Standard                        0 to 100 kbit/s                    -                                  -                        0 to 100 kbit/s
                                   Fast ↔ Fast                            0 to 100 kbit/s                    0 to 400 kbit/s                    -                        0 to 100 kbit/s
                                   Standard ↔ Standard 0 to 100 kbit/s                                       -                                  0 to 100 kbit/s          0 to 100 kbit/s

                                   Remark: Table 9 assumes that the Hs devices are isolated from the Fm and Sm devices
                                   when operating at 3.4 Mbit/s. The bus speed is always constrained to the maximum
                                   communication rate of the slowest device attached to the bus.

                         5.3.6 Standard, Fast-mode and Fast-mode Plus transfer in a mixed-speed bus
                               system
                                   The bridge shown in Figure 36 interconnects corresponding serial bus lines, forming one
                                   serial bus system. As no controller code (0000 1XXX) is transmitted, the current-source
UM10204                                                      All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                               Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                40 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                           UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual


                    pull-up circuits stay disabled and all output stages are open-drain. All devices, including
                    Hs-mode devices, communicate with each other according to the protocol, format and
                                              2
                    speed of the F/S-mode I C-bus specification.

              5.3.7 Hs-mode transfer in a mixed-speed bus system
                    Figure 37 shows the timing diagram of a complete Hs-mode transfer, which is invoked
                    by a START condition, a controller code, and a not-acknowledge A (at F/S-mode speed).
                    Although this timing diagram is split in two parts, it should be viewed as one timing
                    diagram were time point tH is a common point for both parts.
                    The controller code is recognized by the bridge in the active or non-active controller (see
                    Figure 36). The bridge performs the following actions:
                    1. Between t1 and tH (see Figure 37), transistor TR1 opens to separate the SDAH and
                       SDA lines, after which transistor TR3 closes to pull-down the SDA line to VSS.
                    2. When both SCLH and SCL become HIGH (tH in Figure 37), transistor TR2 opens to
                       separate the SCLH and SCL lines. TR2 must be opened before SCLH goes LOW
                       after Sr.
                    Hs-mode transfer starts after tH with a repeated START condition (Sr). During Hs-mode
                    transfer, the SCL line stays at a HIGH and the SDA line at a LOW steady-state level, and
                    so is prepared for the transfer of a STOP condition (P).
                    After each acknowledge (A) or not-acknowledge bit (A), the active controller disables
                    its current-source pull-up circuit. This enables other devices to delay the serial transfer
                    by stretching the LOW period of the SCLH signal. The active controller re-enables its
                    current-source pull-up circuit again when all devices are released and the SCLH signal
                    reaches a HIGH level, and so speeds up the last part of the SCLH signal rise time. In
                    irregular situations, F/S-mode devices can close the bridge (TR1 and TR2 closed, TR3
                    open) at any time by pulling down the SCL line for at least 1 μs, for example, to recover
                    from a bus hang-up.
                    Hs-mode finishes with a STOP condition and brings the bus system back into the F/S-
                    mode. The active controller disables its current-source MCS when the STOP condition
                    (P) at SDAH is detected (tFS in Figure 37). The bridge also recognizes this STOP
                    condition and takes the following actions:
                    1. Transistor TR2 closes after tFS to connect SCLH with SCL; both of which are HIGH
                       at this time. Transistor TR3 opens after tFS, which releases the SDA line and allows it
                       to be pulled HIGH by the pull-up resistor Rp. This is the STOP condition for the F/S-
                       mode devices. TR3 must open fast enough to ensure the bus free time between the
                       STOP condition and the earliest next START condition is according to the Fast-mode
                       specification (see tBUF in Table 10).
                    2. When SDA reaches a HIGH (t2 in Figure 37), transistor TR1 closes to connect SDAH
                       with SDA. (Note: interconnections are made when all lines are HIGH, thus preventing
                       spikes on the bus lines.) TR1 and TR2 must be closed within the minimum bus free
                       time according to the Fast-mode specification (see tBUF in Table 10).




UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                      41 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                                UM10204
                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                          I C-bus specification and user manual


                                                                                                                                                          t1
                                                              8-bit controller code 00001xxx                                                         A
                  S                                                                                                                                                         tH

          SDAH




          SCLH                          1                    2 to 5                            6                  7                       8          9




          SDA




          SCL                           1                    2 to 5                            6                  7                       8          9


                                                                                    F/S mode




                                            7-bit SLA                 R/W        A                     n × (8-bit DATA                +       A/A)
                           Sr                                                                                                                            Sr P


          SDAH



          SCLH                      1       2 to 5      6      7        8       9          1         2 to 5           6       7       8        9
                                                                                                                                                           P

          SDA                                                                                                                                                          t2




          SCL                                                                                                                                                   If P then
                                                                                     Hs-mode                                                                    F/S mode
                                                                                                                                                                If Sr (dotted lines)
                                                                                                                                                                then Hs-mode
                      tH
                                                                                                                                                         tFS
                                                                                                                                                                                 msc611
                  = MCS current source pull-up

                  = Rp resistor pull-up

 Figure 37. A complete Hs-mode transfer in a mixed-speed bus system


                 5.3.8 Timing requirements for the bridge in a mixed-speed bus system
                                It can be seen from Figure 37 that the actions of the bridge at t1, tH and tFS must be so
                                fast that it does not affect the SDAH and SCLH lines. Furthermore the bridge must meet
                                the related timing requirements of the Fast-mode specification for the SDA and SCL
                                lines.

                  5.4 Ultra Fast-mode
                                                                                                                                  2
                                Ultra Fast-mode (UFm) devices offer an increase in I C-bus transfer speeds. UFm
                                devices can transfer information at bit rates of up to 5 Mbit/s. UFm devices offer push-pull
                                drivers, eliminating the pull-up resistors, allowing higher transfer rates. The same serial

UM10204                                              All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                                   © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                        Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                            42 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                                  UM10204
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                             I C-bus specification and user manual


                                  bus protocol and data format is maintained as with the Sm, Fm, or Fm+ system. UFm bus
                                                                                 2
                                  devices are not compatible with bidirectional I C-bus devices.

6         Electrical specifications and timing for I/O stages and bus lines

                         6.1 Standard-, Fast-, and Fast-mode Plus devices
                                  The I/O levels, I/O current, spike suppression, output slope control and pin capacitance
                                                               2
                                  are given in Table 10. The I C-bus timing characteristics, bus-line capacitance and noise
                                                                                                                2
                                  margin are given in Table 10. Figure 38 shows the timing definitions for the I C-bus.
                                  The minimum HIGH and LOW periods of the SCL clock specified in Table 10 determine
                                  the maximum bit transfer rates of 100 kbit/s for Standard-mode devices, 400 kbit/s for
                                  Fast-mode devices, and 1000 kbit/s for Fast-mode Plus. Devices must be able to follow
                                  transfers at their own maximum bit rates, either by being able to transmit or receive at
                                  that speed or by applying the clock synchronization procedure described in Section 3.1.7
                                  which forces the controller into a wait state and stretch the LOW period of the SCL signal.
                                  In the latter case, the bit transfer rate is reduced.

Table 10. Characteristics of the SDA and SCL I/O stages
n/a = not applicable.
Symbol Parameter                                   Conditions                                Standard-mode                            Fast-mode                Fast-mode Plus                     Unit
                                                                                                Min            Max                    Min         Max             Min                Max
                                           [1]
VIL          LOW-level input voltage                                                            -0.5         0.3VDD                   -0.5       0.3VDD           -0.5              0.3VDD V
                                           [1]                                                                   [2]                               [2]                        [1]     [2]
VIH          HIGH-level input voltage                                                        0.7VDD                               0.7VDD                       0.7VDD                             V
Vhys         hysteresis of Schmitt trigger                                                         -              -             0.05VDD            -           0.05VDD                -           V
             inputs
VOL1         LOW-level output voltage 1            (open-drain or open-                           0             0.4                    0          0.4               0                0.4          V
                                                   collector) at 3 mA sink
                                                   current; VDD > 2 V
VOL2         LOW-level output voltage 2            (open-drain or open-                            -              -                    0         0.2VDD             0               0.2VDD V
                                                   collector) at 2 mA sink
                                                           [3]
                                                   current ; VDD ≤ 2 V
IOL          LOW-level output current              VOL = 0.4 V                                    3               -                    3           -               20                 -           mA
                                                                    [4]
                                                   VOL = 0.6 V                                     -              -                    6           -                -                 -           mA
                                                                                                                       [5]                               [5]                                [7]
tof          output fall time from VIHmin to                                                       -         250              20 × (VDD          250           20 × (VDD            120           ns
                                                                                                                                       [6]                              [6]
             VILmax                                                                                                           / 5.5 V)                         / 5.5 V)
                                                                                                                                                       [8]                                [8]
tSP          pulse width of spikes that                                                            -              -                    0         50                 0               50            ns
             must be suppressed by the
             input filter
                                                                                                                                           [9]           [9]            [9]                 [9]
Ii           input current each I/O pin            0.1VDD < VI < 0.9VDDmax                      -10            +10                -10            +10             -10                +10           μA
Ci           capacitance for each I/O pin                                                          -            10                     -          10                -                10           pF
             [10]



[1]    Some legacy Standard-mode devices had fixed input levels of VIL = 1.5 V and VIH = 3.0 V. Refer to component data sheets.
[2]    Maximum VIH = VDD(max) + 0.5 V or 5.5 V, which ever is lower. See component data sheets.
[3]    The same resistor value to drive 3 mA at 3.0 V VDD provides the same RC time constant when using <2 V VDD with a smaller current draw.
[4]    In order to drive full bus load at 400 kHz, 6 mA IOL is required at 0.6 V VOL. Parts not meeting this specification can still function, but not at 400 kHz and
       400 pF.
[5]    The maximum tf for the SDA and SCL bus lines quoted in Table 10 (300 ns) is longer than the specified maximum tof for the output stages (250 ns). This
       allows series protection resistors (Rs) to be connected between the SDA/SCL pins and the SDA/SCL bus lines as shown in Figure 45 without exceeding
       the maximum specified tf.
[6]    Necessary to be backwards compatible with Fast-mode.


UM10204                                                  All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                                 © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                           Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                  43 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                                  UM10204
                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                              I C-bus specification and user manual


[7]  In Fast-mode Plus, fall time is specified the same for both output stage and bus timing. If series resistors are used, designers should allow for this when
     considering bus timing.
[8] Input filters on the SDA and SCL inputs suppress noise spikes of less than 50 ns.
[9] If VDD is switched off, I/O pins of Fast-mode and Fast-mode Plus devices must not obstruct the SDA and SCL lines.
[10] Special purpose devices such as multiplexers and switches may exceed this capacitance because they connect multiple paths together.

                                                                                                                                                                   2
Table 11. Characteristics of the SDA and SCL bus lines for Standard, Fast, and Fast-mode Plus I C-bus
devices
All values referred to VIH(min) (0.7VDD) and VIL(max) (0.3VDD) levels (see Table 10).
Symbol Parameter                                      Conditions                                         Standar                       Fast-mode               Fast-mode Plus                    Unit
                                                                                                         d-mode
                                                                                                     Min           Max                 Min           Max          Min              Max
fSCL         SCL clock frequency                                                                       0            100                 0            400            0              1000          kHz
tHD;STA      hold time (repeated) START               After this period, the first                    4.0               -               0.6              -        0.26                -          μs
             condition                                clock pulse is generated.
tLOW         LOW period of the SCL clock                                                              4.7               -               1.3              -         0.5                -          μs
tHIGH        HIGH period of the SCL clock                                                             4.0               -               0.6              -        0.26                -          μs
tSU;STA      set-up time for a repeated                                                               4.7               -               0.6              -        0.26                -          μs
             START condition
                               [1]
tHD;DAT      data hold time                           CBUS compatible                                 5.0               -                  -             -          -                 -          μs
                                                      controllers (see Remark
                                                      in Section 4.1)
                                                      2                                                  [2]            [3]                [2]           [3]
                                                      I C-bus devices                                0              -                  0             -              0                 -          μs
                                                                                                                                               [4]
tSU;DAT      data set-up time                                                                        250                -              100               -         50                 -          ns
tr           rise time of both SDA and SCL                                                               -         1000                 20           300            -               120          ns
             signals
                                                                                                                                                                                           [7]
tf           fall time of both SDA and SCL                                                               -          300            20 × (VDD         300       20 × (VDD          120            ns
                      [2] [5] [6] [7]                                                                                                                                   [8]
             signals                                                                                                                / 5.5 V)                   / 5.5 V)
tSU;STO      set-up time for STOP condition                                                           4.0               -               0.6              -        0.26                -          μs
tBUF         bus free time between a STOP                                                             4.7               -               1.3              -         0.5                -          μs
             and START condition
Cb           capacitive load for each bus line                                                           -          400                    -         400            -               550          pF
             [9]

                               [10]
tVD;DAT      data valid time                                                                             -         3.45                    -         0.9            -              0.45          μs
                                                                                                                      [3]                            [3]                             [3]

                                               [11]
tVD;ACK      data valid acknowledge time                                                                 -         3.45                    -         0.9            -              0.45          μs
                                                                                                                      [3]                            [3]                             [3]


VnL          noise margin at the LOW level            for each connected                          0.1VDD                -           0.1VDD               -      0.1VDD                -          V
                                                      device (including
                                                      hysteresis)
VnH          noise margin at the HIGH level           for each connected                          0.2VDD                -           0.2VDD               -      0.2VDD                -          V
                                                      device (including
                                                      hysteresis)

[1]    tHD;DAT is the data hold time that is measured from the falling edge of SCL, applies to data in transmission and the acknowledge.
[2]    Ensure SCL drops below 0.3VDD on falling edge before SDA crosses into the indeterminate range of 0.3 VDD to 0.7 VDD.
       NOTE: For controllers that cannot observe the SCL falling edge then independent measurement of the time for the SCL transition from static high (VDD) to
       0.3 VDD should be used to insert a delay of the SDA transition with respect to SCL.
[3]    The maximum tHD;DAT could be 3.45 μs and 0.9 μs for Standard-mode and Fast-mode, but must be less than the maximum of tVD;DAT or tVD;ACK by a
       transition time. This maximum must only be met if the device does not stretch the LOW period (tLOW) of the SCL signal. If the clock stretches the SCL, the
       data must be valid by the set-up time before it releases the clock.
                       2                                                   2
[4]    A Fast-mode I C-bus device can be used in a Standard-mode I C-bus system, but the requirement tSU;DAT 250 ns must then be met. This will
       automatically be the case if the device does not stretch the LOW period of the SCL signal. If such a device does stretch the LOW period of the SCL signal,
                                                                                                                                  2
       it must output the next data bit to the SDA line tr(max) + tSU;DAT = 1000 + 250 = 1250 ns (according to the Standard-mode I C-bus specification) before the
       SCL line is released. Also the acknowledge timing must meet this set-up time.
[5]    If mixed with Hs-mode devices, faster fall times according to Table 10 are allowed.


UM10204                                                   All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                                © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                            Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                 44 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                           UM10204
                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                I C-bus specification and user manual


[6]  The maximum tf for the SDA and SCL bus lines is specified at 300 ns. The maximum fall time for the SDA output stage tf is specified at 250 ns. This
     allows series protection resistors to be connected in between the SDA and the SCL pins and the SDA/SCL bus lines without exceeding the maximum
     specified tf.
[7] In Fast-mode Plus, fall time is specified the same for both output stage and bus timing. If series resistors are used, designers should allow for this when
     considering bus timing.
[8] Necessary to be backwards compatible to Fast-mode.
[9] The maximum bus capacitance allowable may vary from this value depending on the actual operating voltage and frequency of the application.
     Section 7.2 discusses techniques for coping with higher bus capacitances.
[10] tVD;DAT = time for data signal from SCL LOW to SDA output (HIGH or LOW, depending on which one is worse).
[11] tVD;ACK = time for Acknowledgement signal from SCL LOW to SDA output (HIGH or LOW, depending on which one is worse).


                         tf                  tr                   tSU;DAT

                 70 %                                   70 %
          SDA
                  30 %                                  30 %                                                                                                                    cont.
                                                       tHD;DAT                                                                            tVD;DAT
                               tf
                                                                                                                       tHIGH
                                                                                   tr
                                    70 %                    70 %                          70 %                                    70 %
          SCL                                                                              30 %                                    30 %
                                     30 %                   30 %                                                                                                                cont.
                         tHD;STA                                                                    tLOW
                                                                                                                                                                9th clock
                     S                      1 / fSCL
                                      1st clock cycle

                                                                                                                                                tBUF

          SDA

                                                                                                tVD;ACK
                tSU;STA                           tHD;STA        tSP                                                     tSU;STO


                                                                                        70 %
          SCL
                                                                                         30 %
                                     Sr                                                                                                    P           S
                                                                                                       9th clock                                                   002aac938

 VIL = 0.3VDD
 VIH = 0.7VDD
                                                                                                       2
 Figure 38. Definition of timing for F/S-mode devices on the I C-bus


                          6.2 Hs-mode devices
                                    The I/O levels, I/O current, spike suppression, output slope control and pin capacitance
                                         2
                                    for I C-bus Hs-mode devices are given in Table 12. The noise margin for HIGH and LOW
                                                                                                     2
                                    levels on the bus lines are the same as specified for F/S-mode I C-bus devices.
                                    Figure 39 shows all timing parameters for the Hs-mode timing. The ‘normal’ START
                                    condition S does not exist in Hs-mode. Timing parameters for Address bits, R/W bit,
                                    Acknowledge bit and DATA bits are all the same. Only the rising edge of the first SCLH
                                    clock signal after an acknowledge bit has a larger value because the external Rp has to
                                    pull up SCLH without the help of the internal current-source.
                                    The Hs-mode timing parameters for the bus lines are specified in Table 12. The minimum
                                    HIGH and LOW periods and the maximum rise and fall times of the SCLH clock signal
                                    determine the highest bit rate.
                                    With an internally generated SCLH signal with LOW and HIGH level periods of 200 ns
                                    and 100 ns respectively, an Hs-mode controller fulfills the timing requirements for the
                                    external SCLH clock pulses (taking the rise and fall times into account) for the maximum
                                    bit rate of 3.4 Mbit/s. So a basic frequency of 10 MHz, or a multiple of 10 MHz, can be
                                    used by an Hs-mode controller to generate the SCLH signal. There are no limits for

UM10204                                                     All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                     © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                              Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                     45 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                             UM10204
                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                    I C-bus specification and user manual


                          maximum HIGH and LOW periods of the SCLH clock, and there is no limit for a lowest bit
                          rate.
                          Timing parameters are independent for capacitive load up to 100 pF for each bus line
                          allowing the maximum possible bit rate of 3.4 Mbit/s. At a higher capacitive load on
                          the bus lines, the bit rate decreases gradually. The timing parameters for a capacitive
                          bus load of 400 pF are specified in Table 12, allowing a maximum bit rate of 1.7 Mbit/
                          s. For capacitive bus loads between 100 pF and 400 pF, the timing parameters must be
                          interpolated linearly. Rise and fall times are in accordance with the maximum propagation
                          time of the transmission lines SDAH and SCLH to prevent reflections of the open ends.
                                                                                                                             2
Table 12. Characteristics of the SDAH, SCLH, SDA and SCL I/O stages for Hs-mode I C-bus devices
Symbol       Parameter                                       Conditions                                                                   Hs-mode                    Unit
                                                                                                                                   Min              Max
                                                                                                                                                            [1]
VIL          LOW-level input voltage                                                                                               -0.5         0.3VDD               V
                                                                                                                                       [1]                    [2]
VIH          HIGH-level input voltage                                                                                            0.7VDD      VDD + 0.5               V
                                                                                                                                       [1]
Vhys         hysteresis of Schmitt trigger inputs                                                                                0.1VDD                -             V
VOL          LOW-level output voltage                        (open-drain) at 3 mA sink current at
                                                             SDAH, SDA and SCLH
                                                                   VDD > 2 V                                                        0                0.4             V
                                                                   VDD ≤ 2 V                                                        0            0.2VDD              V
RonL         transfer gate on resistance for                 VOL level; IOL = 3 mA                                                   -               50              Ω
             currents between SDA and SDAH
             or SCL and SCLH
       [2]
RonH         transfer gate on resistance between both signals (SDA and SDAH, or SCL                                                 50                 -             kΩ
             SDA and SDAH or SCL and SCLH and SCLH) at VDD level
ICS          pull-up current of the SCLH current- SCLH output levels between 0.3VDD and                                             3                12              mA
             source                               0.7VDD
trCL         rise time of SCLH signal                        output rise time (current-source enabled)
                                                             with an external pull-up current source of
                                                             3 mA
                                                                   capacitive load from 10 pF to 100 pF                             10               40              ns
                                                                                                                  [3]
                                                                   capacitive load of 400 pF                                        20               80              ns
tfCL         fall time of SCLH signal                        output fall time (current-source enabled)
                                                             with an external pull-up current source of
                                                             3 mA
                                                                   capacitive load from 10 pF to 100 pF                             10               40              ns
                                                                                                                  [3]
                                                                   capacitive load of 400 pF                                        20               80              ns
tfDA         fall time of SDAH signal                        capacitive load from 10 pF to 100 pF                                   10               80              ns
                                                                                                            [3]
                                                             capacitive load of 400 pF                                              20              160              ns
tSP          pulse width of spikes that must be              SDAH and SCLH                                                          0                10              ns
             suppressed by the input filter
 [4]
Ii           input current each I/O pin                      input voltage between 0.1VDD and                                        -               10              μA
                                                             0.9VDD
                                          [5]
Ci           capacitance for each I/O pin                                                                                            -               10              pF



UM10204                                         All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                   © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                  Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                       46 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                   UM10204
                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                             I C-bus specification and user manual

                                                                                                              2
[1]     Devices that use non-standard supply voltages which do not conform to the intended I C-bus system levels must relate their input levels to the VDD
        voltage to which the pull-up resistors Rp are connected.
[2]     Devices that offer the level shift function must tolerate a maximum input voltage of 5.5 V at SDA and SCL.
[3]     For capacitive bus loads between 100 pF and 400 pF, the rise and fall time values must be linearly interpolated.
[4]     If their supply voltage has been switched off, SDAH and SCLH I/O stages of Hs-mode target devices must have floating outputs. Due to the current-
        source output circuit, which normally has a clipping diode to VDD, this requirement is not mandatory for the SCLH or the SDAH I/O stage of Hs-mode
        controller devices. This means that the supply voltage of Hs-mode controller devices cannot be switched off without affecting the SDAH and SCLH lines.
[5]     Special purpose devices such as multiplexers and switches may exceed this capacitance because they connect multiple paths together.




                                                                                                                                       2                  [1]
Table 13. Characteristics of the SDAH, SCLH, SDA and SCL bus lines for Hs-mode I C-bus devices
                                                                                                                                                                     [2]
Symbol           Parameter                                     Conditions                                             Cb = 100 pF (max)      Cb = 400 pF                         Unit
                                                                                                                          Min         Max    Min                  Max
fSCLH            SCLH clock frequency                                                                                        0        3.4     0                    1.7           MHz
tSU;STA          set-up time for a repeated                                                                               160          -     160                     -           ns
                 START condition
tHD;STA          hold time (repeated) START                                                                               160          -     160                     -           ns
                 condition
tLOW             LOW period of the SCL clock                                                                              160          -     320                     -           ns
tHIGH            HIGH period of the SCL clock                                                                              60          -     120                     -           ns
tSU;DAT          data set-up time                                                                                          10          -      10                     -           ns
                                                                                                                             [3]                 [3]
tHD;DAT          data hold time                                                                                            0          70     0                    150            ns
trCL             rise time of SCLH signal                                                                                  10         40      20                   80            ns
trCL1            rise time of SCLH signal after a                                                                          10         80      20                  160            ns
                 repeated START condition and
                 after an acknowledge bit
tfCL             fall time of SCLH signal                                                                                  10         40      20                   80            ns
trDA             rise time of SDAH signal                                                                                  10         80      20                  160            ns
tfDA             fall time of SDAH signal                                                                                  10         80      20                  160            ns
tSU;STO          set-up time for STOP condition                                                                           160          -     160                     -           ns
      [2]
Cb               capacitive load for each bus line SDAH and SCLH lines                                                       -        100     -                   400            pF
                                                               SDAH + SDA line and                                           -        400     -                   400            pF
                                                               SCLH + SCL line
VnL              noise margin at the LOW level                 for each connected device                               0.1VDD          -    0.1VDD                   -           V
                                                               (including hysteresis)
VnH              noise margin at the HIGH level                for each connected device                               0.2VDD          -    0.2VDD                   -           V
                                                               (including hysteresis)

[1]     All values referred to VIH(min) and VIL(max) levels (see Table 12).
[2]     For bus line loads Cb between 100 pF and 400 pF the timing parameters must be linearly interpolated.
[3]     A device must internally provide a data hold time to bridge the undefined part between VIH and VIL of the falling edge of the SCLH signal. An input circuit
        with a threshold as low as possible for the falling edge of the SCLH signal minimizes this hold time.




UM10204                                                  All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                    © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                           Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                 47 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                          UM10204
                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                              I C-bus specification and user manual


                            Sr                                                                                                                            Sr    P
                  tfDA                  trDA


                                                                                                                                                                            0.7 × VDD
      SDAH
                                                                                                                                                                            0.3 × VDD

                                             tHD;DAT                                                                                            tSU;STO
                  tSU;STA
                                  tHD;STA                                      tSU;DAT


                                                                                                                                                                            0.7 × VDD
      SCLH
                                                                                                                                                                            0.3 × VDD


                                                                tfCL
                                            (1)                                                                                        trCL1
                                    trCL1                                                trCL
                                                                                                                                                (1)

                                                  tHIGH        tLOW                       tLOW          tHIGH
                                                                                                                                                                        002aag825
                    = MCS current source pull-up

                    = Rp resistor pull-up

 1. First rising edge of the SCLH signal after Sr and after each acknowledge bit.
                                                                                                    2
 Figure 39. Definition of timing for Hs-mode devices on the I C-bus


                         6.3 Ultra Fast-mode devices
                                 The I/O levels, I/O current, spike suppression, output slope control and pin capacitance
                                                                    2
                                 are given in Table 14. The UFm I C-bus timing characteristics are given in Table 15.
                                                                                 2
                                 Figure 40 shows the timing definitions for the I C-bus. The minimum HIGH and LOW
                                 periods of the SCL clock specified in Table 15 determine the maximum bit transfer rates
                                 of 5000 kbit/s for Ultra Fast-mode. Devices must be able to follow transfers at their own
                                 maximum bit rates, either by being able to transmit or receive at that speed.

Table 14. Characteristics of the USDA and USCL I/O stages
n/a = not applicable.
Symbol            Parameter                                                   Conditions                                                        Ultra Fast-mode                   Unit
                                                                                                                                                 Min                Max
                                                   [1]
VIL               LOW-level input voltage                                                                                                        -0.5          +0.3VDD            V
                                                   [1]                                                                                               [1]              [2]
VIH               HIGH-level input voltage                                                                                                     0.7VDD               -             V
Vhys              hysteresis of Schmitt trigger inputs                                                                                         0.05VDD                  -         V
VOL               LOW-level output voltage                                    at 4 mA sink current; VDD > 2 V                                         0             0.4           V
VOH               HIGH-level output voltage                                   at 4 mA source current; VDD > 2 V                                VDD - 0.4                -         V
IL                leakage current                                             VDD = 3.6 V                                                         -1                +1            μA
                                                                              VDD = 5.5 V                                                        -10                +10           μA
                                                                                                                                        [3]
Ci                input capacitance                                                                                                                   -             10            pF
                                                                                                                                        [4]
tSP               pulse width of spikes that must be                                                                                                  -             10            ns
                  suppressed by the input filter

[1]   Refer to component data sheets for actual switching points.
[2]   Maximum VIH = VDD(max) + 0.5 V or 5.5 V, whichever is lower. See component data sheets.
[3]   Special purpose devices such as multiplexers and switches may exceed this capacitance because they connect multiple paths together.
[4]   Input filters on the USDA and USCL target inputs suppress noise spikes of less than 10 ns.


UM10204                                                   All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                       © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                            Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                     48 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                                    UM10204
                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                    I C-bus specification and user manual

                      2
Table 15. UFm I C-bus frequency and timing specifications
Symbol             Parameter                                                                                         Conditions                            Ultra Fast-mode                  Unit
                                                                                                                                                           Min              Max
fUSCL              USCL clock frequency                                                                                                                     0               5000            kHz
tBUF               bus free time between a STOP and START condition                                                                                         80                 -            ns
tHD;STA            hold time (repeated) START condition                                                                                                     50                 -            ns
tSU;STA            set-up time for a repeated START condition                                                                                               50                 -            ns
tSU;STO            set-up time for STOP condition                                                                                                           50                 -            ns
tHD;DAT            data hold time                                                                                                                           10                 -            ns
                                                                                                                                                   [1]
tVD;DAT            data valid time                                                                                                                          10                 -            ns
tSU;DAT            data set-up time                                                                                                                         30                 -            ns
tLOW               LOW period of the USCL clock                                                                                                             50                 -            ns
tHIGH              HIGH period of the USCL clock                                                                                                            50                 -            ns
                                                                                                                                                            [2]
tf                 fall time of both USDA and USCL signals                                                                                                  -                 50            ns
                                                                                                                                                            [2]
tr                 rise time of both USDA and USCL signals                                                                                                  -                 50            ns

[1]   tVD;DAT = minimum time for USDA data out to be valid following USCL LOW.
[2]   Typical rise time or fall time for UFm signals is 25 ns measured from the 30 % level to the 70 % level (rise time) or from the 70 % level to the 30 % level
      (fall time).




                          tf                     tr                   tSU;DAT

                  70 %                                       70 %
          USDA
                   30 %                                      30 %                                                                                                                        cont.
                                                           tHD;DAT                                                                            tVD;DAT
                                    tf
                                                                                                                            tHIGH
                                                                                       tr
                                         70 %                   70 %                          70 %                                    70 %
          USCL                                                                                 30 %                                    30 %
                                          30 %                   30 %                                                                                                                    cont.
                          tHD;STA                                                                       tLOW
                                                                                                                                                                         9th clock
                      S                        1 / fUSCL
                                           1st clock cycle

                                                                                                                                                    tBUF

           USDA

                                                                                                    tVD;ACK
                 tSU;STA                              tHD;STA        tSP                                                     tSU;STO


                                                                                            70 %
           USCL
                                                                                             30 %
                                          Sr                                                                                                   P                S
                                                                                                           9th clock                                                        002aag826
                                                                                                                        2
 Figure 40. Definition of timing for Ultra Fast-mode devices on the I C-bus




UM10204                                                         All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                          © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                                  Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                              49 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                UM10204
                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                           I C-bus specification and user manual

                                                                    2
7         Electrical connections of I C-bus devices to the bus lines

                                  7.1 Pull-up resistor sizing
                                      The bus capacitance is the total capacitance of wire, connections and pins. This
                                      capacitance limits the maximum value of Rp due to the specified rise time. Figure 41
                                      shows Rp(max) as a function of bus capacitance.
                                      Consider the VDD related input threshold of VIH = 0.7VDD and VIL = 0.3VDD for the
                                                                                                      -t / RC
                                      purposes of RC time constant calculation. Then V(t) = VDD (1 - e       ), where t is the
                                      time since the charging started and RC is the time constant.
                                                                                          -t1 / RC
                                          V(t1) = 0.3 × VDD = VDD (1 - e          ); then t1 = 0.3566749 × RC
                                                                         -t2 / RC
                                          V(t2) = 0.7 × VDD = VDD (1 - e          ); then t2 = 1.2039729 × RC
                                          T = t2 - t1 = 0.8473 × RC
                                      Figure 41 and Equation 1 shows maximum Rp as a function of bus capacitance for
                                      Standard-, Fast- and Fast-mode Plus. For each mode, the Rp(max) is a function of the rise
                                      time maximum (tr) from Table 10 and the estimated bus capacitance (Cb):

                                                               (1)

                                                       aaa-012677
          120
                                                                                                                                                  aaa-012678
                                                                                                         5
    Rp(max)
                                                                                                   Rp(min)
     (k )                                                                                                                                3 mA
                                                                                                    (k )
                                                                                                         4
           80
                    (1)

                                                                                                            3

           40
                          (2)                                                                               2
                            (3)
                                                                                                                         (1)
                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                        20 mA
            0
                                                                                                                         (2)
                0                   200         400                600
                                                      Cb (pF)                                               0
                                                                                                                0              4    8     12    16       20
                                                                                                                                                  VDD (V)
 1. Standard-mode
 2. Fast-mode                                                                                1. Fast-mode and Standard-mode
 3. Fast-mode Plus                                                                           2. Fast-mode Plus
 Figure 41. Rp(max) as a function of bus capacitance                                         Figure 42. Rp(min) as a function of VDD

                                      The supply voltage limits the minimum value of resistor Rp due to the specified minimum
                                      sink current of 3 mA for Standard-mode and Fast-mode, or 20 mA for Fast-mode Plus.
                                      Rp(min) as a function of VDD is shown in Figure 42. The traces are calculated using
                                      Equation 2:

                                                                    (2)

                                      The designer now has the minimum and maximum value of Rp that is required to meet
                                      the timing specification. Portable designs with sensitivity to supply current consumption
                                      can use a value toward the higher end of the range in order to limit IDD.




UM10204                                                All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.               © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                         Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                          50 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                           UM10204
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        I C-bus specification and user manual


               7.2 Operating above the maximum allowable bus capacitance
                    Bus capacitance limit is specified to limit rise time reductions and allow operating at the
                    rated frequency. While most designs can easily stay within this limit, some applications
                    may exceed it. There are several strategies available to system designers to cope with
                    excess bus capacitance.
                    • Reduced fSCL (Section 7.2.1): The bus may be operated at a lower speed (lower fSCL).
                    • Higher drive outputs (Section 7.2.2): Devices with higher drive current such as those
                      rated for Fast-mode Plus can be used (PCA96xx).
                    • Bus buffers (Section 7.2.3): There are a number of bus buffer devices available that
                      can divide the bus into segments so that each segment has a capacitance below the
                      allowable limit, such as the PCA9517 bus buffer or the PCA9546A switch.
                    • Switched pull-up circuit (Section 7.2.4): A switched pull-up circuit can be used to
                      accelerate rising edges by switching a low value pull-up alternately in and out when
                      needed.

              7.2.1 Reduced fSCL
                    To determine a lower allowable bus operating frequency, begin by finding the tLOW and
                    tHIGH of the most limiting device on the bus. Refer to individual component data sheets
                    for these values. Actual rise time (tr) depends on the RC time constant. The most limiting
                    fall time (tf) depends on the lowest output drive on the bus. Be sure to allow for any
                    devices that have a minimum tr or tf. Refer to Equation 3 for the resulting fmax.

                                                                                            (3)

                    Remark: Very long buses must also account for time of flight of signals.
                    Actual results are slower, as real parts do not tend to control tLOW and tHIGH to the
                    minimum from 30 % to 70 %, or 70 % to 30 %, respectively.

              7.2.2 Higher drive outputs
                    If higher drive devices like the PCA96xx Fast-mode Plus or the P82B bus buffers are
                    used, the higher strength output drivers sink more current which results in considerably
                    faster edge rates, or, looked at another way, allows a higher bus capacitance. Refer
                    to individual component data sheets for actual output drive capability. Repeat the
                    calculation above using the new values of Cb, Rp, tr and tf to determine maximum
                    frequency. Bear in mind that the maximum rating for fSCL as specified in Table 10 (100
                    kHz, 400 kHz and 1000 kHz) may become limiting.

              7.2.3 Bus buffers, multiplexers and switches
                    Another approach to coping with excess bus capacitance is to divide the bus into smaller
                    segments using bus buffers, multiplexers or switches. Figure 43 shows an example of a
                    bus that uses a PCA9515 buffer to deal with high bus capacitance. Each segment is then
                    allowed to have the maximum capacitance so the total bus can have twice the maximum
                    capacitance. Keep in mind that adding a buffer always adds delays — a buffer delay
                    plus an additional transition time to each edge, which reduces the maximum operating
                    frequency and may also introduce special VIL and VOL considerations.
                                                                            2
                    Refer to application notes AN255, I C / SMBus Repeaters, Hubs and Expanders and
                                                 2
                    AN262, PCA954x Family of I C / SMBus Multiplexers and Switches for more details on
                    this subject and the devices available from NXP Semiconductors.
UM10204                             All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                      Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                      51 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                 UM10204
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                          I C-bus specification and user manual


                         VDD1                                                                                                                                         VDD2




                                                  400 pF                                                                           400 pF
                                SDA
                          SCL                                                             BUFFER



                                        targets and controllers                                                           targets and controllers
                                                                                                                                                                  002aac882

                     Remark: Some buffers allow VDD1 and VDD2 to be different levels.
                     Figure 43. Using a buffer to divide bus capacitance


              7.2.4 Switched pull-up circuit
                    The supply voltage (VDD) and the maximum output LOW level determine the minimum
                    value of pull-up resistor Rp (see Section 7.1). For example, with a supply voltage of VDD =
                    5 V ± 10 % and VOL(max) = 0.4 V at 3 mA, Rp(min) = (5.5 - 0.4) / 0.003 = 1.7 kΩ. As shown
                    in Figure 42, this value of Rp limits the maximum bus capacitance to about 200 pF to
                    meet the maximum tr requirement of 300 ns. If the bus has a higher capacitance than
                    this, a switched pull-up circuit (as shown in Figure 44) can be used.

                                                                                                                    nY               VDD
                                                        1/4 HCT4066
                                                                                                                                    5V 10 %
                                               nE                                                                   VCC


                                                                                 P                 N


                                                                                            nZ           GND
                                                                               1.3 kΩ         R p2                 1.7 kΩ    R p1
                                                                                                                                    SDA or SCL
                                                                                                                                     bus line
                                                             100 Ω         Rs         100 Ω         Rs

                                                                         I/O                      I/O
                                                                                                                           Cb
                                                                                                                          400 pF
                                                                                                                           max.
                                                               N                        N

                                                                                                                                    VSS

                                                        FAST - MODE I 2 C BUS DEVICES
                                                                                                                                            mbc620

                     Figure 44. Switched pull-up circuit

                    The switched pull-up circuit in Figure 44 is for a supply voltage of VDD = 5 V ± 10 % and
                    a maximum capacitive load of 400 pF. Since it is controlled by the bus levels, it needs no
                    additional switching control signals. During the rising/falling edges, the bilateral switch in
                    the HCT4066 switches pull-up resistor Rp2 on/off at bus levels between 0.8 V and 2.0 V.
                    Combined resistors Rp1 and Rp2 can pull up the bus line within the maximum specified
                    rise time (tr) of 300 ns.
                                                                                                                                             2
                    Series resistors Rs are optional. They protect the I/O stages of the I C-bus devices from
                    high-voltage spikes on the bus lines, and minimize crosstalk and undershoot of the bus
                    line signals. The maximum value of Rs is determined by the maximum permitted voltage
                    drop across this resistor when the bus line is switched to the LOW level in order to switch
                    off Rp2.

UM10204                               All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                                     © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                         Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                               52 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                         UM10204
                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                      I C-bus specification and user manual


                  Additionally, some bus buffers contain integral rise time accelerators. Stand-alone rise
                  time accelerators are also available.

              7.3 Series protection resistors
                  As shown in Figure 45, series resistors (Rs) of, for example, 300 Ω can be used for
                  protection against high-voltage spikes on the SDA and SCL lines (resulting from the
                  flash-over of a TV picture tube, for example). If series resistors are used, designers must
                  add the additional resistance into their calculations for Rp and allowable bus capacitance.

                                                             VDD                                VDD



                                                              I2C                              I2C
                                                            DEVICE                           DEVICE
                                                                                                                Rp              Rp

                                                    Rs               Rs                 Rs                 Rs

                                             SDA

                                            SCL
                                                                                                                                mbc627

                   Figure 45. Series resistors (Rs) for protection against high-voltage spikes

                  The required noise margin of 0.1VDD for the LOW level, limits the maximum value of Rs.
                  Rs(max) as a function of Rp is shown in Figure 46. Note that series resistors affect the
                  output fall time.

                                                                                                                       mbc629
                                                  10
                                               Rp
                                              (kΩ)                            VDD = 2.5 V                            5V
                                                    8



                                                    6
                                                                                                                15 V

                                                    4
                                                                                              10 V


                                                    2



                                                    0
                                                        0               400                800           1200       1600
                                                                                                     maximum value Rs (Ω)

                   Figure 46. Maximum value of Rs as a function of the value of Rp with supply voltage as a
                   parameter


              7.4 Input leakage
                  The maximum HIGH level input current of each input/output connection has a specified
                  maximum value of 10 μA. Due to the required noise margin of 0.2VDD for the HIGH level,
                  this input current limits the maximum value of Rp. This limit depends on VDD. The total
                  HIGH-level input current is shown as a function of Rp(max) in Figure 47.


UM10204                           All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                             © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                    Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                   53 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                            UM10204
                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                      I C-bus specification and user manual


                                                                                                                   mbc630
                                                 20
                                        maximum
                                        value R p
                                           (kΩ )
                                                 16



                                                  12


                                                                                                     VDD = 15 V
                                                    8

                                                                                                               10 V

                                                    4
                                                                                                                  5V


                                                                                                               2.5 V
                                                    0
                                                        0            40              80        120        160        200
                                                                                    total high level input current (µA)

                   Figure 47. Total HIGH-level input current as a function of the maximum value of Rp with
                   supply voltage as a parameter


              7.5 Wiring pattern of the bus lines
                  In general, the wiring must be chosen so that crosstalk and interference to/from the bus
                  lines is minimized. The bus lines are most susceptible to crosstalk and interference at the
                  HIGH level because of the relatively high impedance of the pull-up devices.
                  If the length of the bus lines on a PCB or ribbon cable exceeds 10 cm and includes the
                  VDD and VSS lines, the wiring pattern should be:
                     SDA _______________________
                     VDD ________________________
                     VSS ________________________
                     SCL _______________________
                  If only the VSS line is included, the wiring pattern should be:
                     SDA _______________________
                     VSS ________________________
                     SCL _______________________
                  These wiring patterns also result in identical capacitive loads for the SDA and SCL lines.
                  If a PCB with a VSS and/or VDD layer is used, the VSS and VDD lines can be omitted.
                  If the bus lines are twisted-pairs, each bus line must be twisted with a VSS return.
                  Alternatively, the SCL line can be twisted with a VSS return, and the SDA line twisted with
                  a VDD return. In the latter case, capacitors must be used to decouple the VDD line to the
                  VSS line at both ends of the twisted pairs.
                  If the bus lines are shielded (shield connected to VSS), interference is minimized.
                  However, the shielded cable must have low capacitive coupling between the SDA and
                  SCL lines to minimize crosstalk.




UM10204                           All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                    Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                      54 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                          UM10204
                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                       I C-bus specification and user manual


8         Abbreviations
                    Table 16. Abbreviations
                    Acronym           Description
                    A/D               Analog-to-Digital
                    ATCA              Advanced Telecom Computing Architecture
                    BMC               Baseboard Management Controller
                    CMOS              Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor
                    cPCI              compact Peripheral Component Interconnect
                    D/A               Digital-to-Analog
                    DIP               Dual In-line Package
                    EEPROM            Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory
                    HW                Hardware
                    I/O               Input/Output
                     2
                    I C-bus           Inter-Integrated Circuit bus
                    IC                Integrated Circuit
                    IPMI              Intelligent Platform Management Interface
                    LCD               Liquid Crystal Display
                    LED               Light Emitting Diode
                    LSB               Least Significant Bit
                    MCU               Microcontroller
                    MSB               Most Significant Bit
                    NMOS              Negative-channel Metal-Oxide Semiconductor
                    PCB               Printed-Circuit Board
                    PCI               Peripheral Component Interconnect
                    PMBus             Power Management Bus
                    RAM               Random Access Memory
                    ROM               Read-Only Memory
                    SMBus             System Management Bus
                    SPI               Serial Peripheral Interface
                    UART              Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter
                    USB               Universal Serial Bus




UM10204                            All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                     Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                     55 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                   UM10204
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                          I C-bus specification and user manual


9         Overview of MIPI I3C
                     MIPI I3C (and the publicly available MIPI I3C Basic) provide a scalable, medium-speed,
                     utility and control bus for connecting peripherals to an application processor. Its design
                                                             2
                     incorporates key attributes from both I C-bus and SPI interfaces to provide a unified,
                     high-performance, low-power interface solution that delivers a flexible upgrade path for
                      2
                     I C-bus and SPI implementers. Originally introduced in 2017, I3C was the culmination of
                     a multi-year development project based on extensive collaboration with the MEMS and
                     Sensors Industry Group and across the broader electronics ecosystem.
                                                       2
                     As shown in Figure 48, I C-bus targets (with 50 ns filter) can coexist with I3C controllers
                                                                                 2
                     operating at 12.5 MHz, enabling the migration of existing I C-bus designs to the I3C
                                                                                                    2
                     specification. Conversely, I3C targets operating at typical 400 kHz or 1 MHz I C-bus
                                                       2
                     speeds can coexist with existing I C-bus controllers.
                                                                 Interrupt



                                                                   I3C                                   I2C                     I3C
                                                                TARGET 1                              TARGET 1                TARGET 4
                                      I3C
                                  CONTROLLER



                                  SoC                                                 I3C
                                                                                   TARGET 2
                                                                                                                      I3C
                                                                                                                   TARGET 3
                                                                                                                                            I2 C
                                                                                                                                         TARGET 2




                                                                                                                                               aaa-043818
                                  2
                     Figure 48. I C and I3C targets coexisting with I3C controller
                              2
                     Just like I C, I3C is implemented with standard CMOS I/O pins using a two-wire interface,
                                 2
                     but unlike I C it supports in-band interrupts enabling target devices to notify controllers of
                     interrupts, a design feature that eliminates the need for a separate general-purpose input/
                     output (GPIO) interrupt for each target, reducing system cost and complexity. Support for
                     dynamic address assignments help minimize pin counts, which is key for accommodating
                     space-constrained form factors.
                     I3C supports a multi-drop bus that, at 12.5 MHz, supports standard data rate (SDR) of
                     10 Mbps with options for high-data-rate (HDR) modes. The net result is that I3C offers a
                                                                               2
                     leap in performance and power efficiency compared with I C as shown in Figure 49.




UM10204                               All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                    © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                        Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                              56 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                           UM10204
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                           I C-bus specification and user manual


                                          Energy Consumption                                                                        Data Rate
                           milliJoules per Megabit for I3C Data Modes (100pf)                                       Mbps for I3C Data Modes (@ 12.5 MHz)
                                        vs. I2C (100pf, 3.54KOhm)                                                             vs. I2C (@400 KHz)

               4.5                                                                                  45

               4                                                                                    40

               3.5                                                                                  35

               3                                                                                    30

               2.5                                                                                  25

               2                                                                                    20

               1.5                                                                                  15

               1                                                                                    10

               .5                                                                                    5

               0                                                                                     0
                        SDR     HDR-DDR        HDR-TSL          HDR-TSP               I2 C                    SDR      HDR-DDR     HDR-TSL       HDR-TSP                 I2C

                                            I3C                                                                                  I3C
                     mJ per Megabit, VDD=3.3 V                                         Assumptions: 1 All symbols in each mode have equal probability for use.
                     mJ per Megabit, VDD=1.8 V                                                      2 Energy consumption is the energy delivered by pull-up
                                                                                                      devices to the bus (which includes drivers and resistors)
                                                                                                                                                                   aaa-043819

                                                                                                                                             2
               Figure 49. Comparison of Energy Consumption and Data Rates: I3C vs I C

              Additional technical highlights for I3C include multi-controller support, dynamic
              addressing, command-code compatibility and a uniform approach for advanced power
              management features, such as sleep mode. It provides synchronous and asynchronous
              timestamping to improve the accuracy of applications that fuse signals from various
              peripherals. It can also batch and transmit data quickly to minimize energy consumption
              of the host processor.




UM10204                                All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                            © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                         Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                       57 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                       UM10204
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                           I C-bus specification and user manual


              9.1 Comparison of features

                        Feature                                                                                     I3C     I3C        I3C        I3C Basic
                                                                                                                    v1.0   Basic       v1.1         v1.1
                        12.5 MHz SDR (Controller, Target and Legacy I2C Target Compatibility)                        √         √         √             √
                        Targe t can operate as I2C device on I2C bus and on I3C bus using
                                                                                                                     √         √         √             √
                        HDR modes
                        Target Reset                                                                                 √         √         √             √
                        Specified 1.2V-3.3V Operation for 50pf C load                                                √         √         √             √

                        In-Band Interrupt (w/MDB)                                                                    √         √         √             √
                        Dynamic Address Assignment                                                                   √         √         √             √
                        Error Detection and Recovery                                                                 √         √         √             √
                        Secondary Controller                                                                         √         √         √             √
                        Hot-Join Mechanism                                                                           √         √         √             √
                        Common Command Codes (Required/Optional)                                                     √     √       √     √         √       √
                        Specified 1.0V Operation for 100pf C load                                                    √         √         √             √
                        Set Static Address as Dynamic Address CCC (SETAASA)                                          √         √         √             √

                        Synchronous Timing Control                                                                   √         √         √             √

                        Asynchronous Timing Control (Mode 0)                                                         √         √         √             √

                        Asynchronous Timing Control (Mode 1-3)                                                       √         √         √             √

                        HDR-DDR                                                                                      √         √         √             √
                        HDR-TSL/TSP                                                                                  √         √         √
                        HDR-BT (Multi-Lane Bulk Transport)                                                           √         √         √             √
                        Grouped Addressing                                                                           √         √         √             √
                        Device to Device(s) Tunneling                                                                √         √         √             √

                        Multi-Lane for Speed (Dual/Quad for SDR and HDR-DDR)                                         √         √         √             √

                        Monitoring Device Early Termination                                                          √         √         √             √
                                                                                                                                                  aaa-043820

                  Figure 50. Comparison of I3C and I3C Basic Features

                  While the full version of I3C is available only to MIPI Alliance members, MIPI has
                  released a public version called I3C Basic that bundles the most commonly needed I3C
                  features for use by developers and other standards organizations. I3C Basic is available
                  for implementation without MIPI membership and is intended to facilitate a royalty-free
                  licensing environment for all implementers. Figure 50 summarizes the key features
                  supported by I3C and I3C Basic.
                  To support developers, compatibility between different I3C implementations has been
                  confirmed through multiple interoperability workshops, and several supporting MIPI
                  resources are available. These include:
                  • I3C Host Controller Interface – MIPI I3C HCI
                  • I3C HCI Driver for Linux
                  • I3C Discovery and Configuration Specification – DisCo for I3C
                  • I3C Debug and Test Interface – MIPI Debug for I3C
                  I3C intellectual property (IP) is available from multiple vendors, including a licence free
                  version for I3C Basic. I3C conformance testing and verification IP test suites are also
                  available from multiple vendors.
                  More information on I3C and I3C Basic is available via the MIPI Alliance website (https://
                  www.mipi.org/specifications/i3c-sensor-specification).


UM10204                                All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                      © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                         Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                 58 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                    UM10204
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                             I C-bus specification and user manual


10 Legal information
                                                                                                  damage. NXP Semiconductors and its suppliers accept no liability for
                                                                                                  inclusion and/or use of NXP Semiconductors products in such equipment or
10.1 Definitions                                                                                  applications and therefore such inclusion and/or use is at the customer’s own
                                                                                                  risk.
Draft — A draft status on a document indicates that the content is still
under internal review and subject to formal approval, which may result                            Applications — Applications that are described herein for any of these
in modifications or additions. NXP Semiconductors does not give any                               products are for illustrative purposes only. NXP Semiconductors makes
representations or warranties as to the accuracy or completeness of                               no representation or warranty that such applications will be suitable
information included in a draft version of a document and shall have no                           for the specified use without further testing or modification. Customers
liability for the consequences of use of such information.                                        are responsible for the design and operation of their applications and
                                                                                                  products using NXP Semiconductors products, and NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                  accepts no liability for any assistance with applications or customer product
                                                                                                  design. It is customer’s sole responsibility to determine whether the NXP
10.2 Disclaimers                                                                                  Semiconductors product is suitable and fit for the customer’s applications
                                                                                                  and products planned, as well as for the planned application and use of
                                                                                                  customer’s third party customer(s). Customers should provide appropriate
Limited warranty and liability — Information in this document is believed                         design and operating safeguards to minimize the risks associated with
to be accurate and reliable. However, NXP Semiconductors does not                                 their applications and products. NXP Semiconductors does not accept any
give any representations or warranties, expressed or implied, as to the                           liability related to any default, damage, costs or problem which is based
accuracy or completeness of such information and shall have no liability                          on any weakness or default in the customer’s applications or products, or
for the consequences of use of such information. NXP Semiconductors                               the application or use by customer’s third party customer(s). Customer is
takes no responsibility for the content in this document if provided by an                        responsible for doing all necessary testing for the customer’s applications
information source outside of NXP Semiconductors. In no event shall NXP                           and products using NXP Semiconductors products in order to avoid a
Semiconductors be liable for any indirect, incidental, punitive, special or                       default of the applications and the products or of the application or use by
consequential damages (including - without limitation - lost profits, lost                        customer’s third party customer(s). NXP does not accept any liability in this
savings, business interruption, costs related to the removal or replacement                       respect.
of any products or rework charges) whether or not such damages are based
on tort (including negligence), warranty, breach of contract or any other
                                                                                                  Export control — This document as well as the item(s) described herein
legal theory. Notwithstanding any damages that customer might incur for
                                                                                                  may be subject to export control regulations. Export might require a prior
any reason whatsoever, NXP Semiconductors’ aggregate and cumulative
                                                                                                  authorization from competent authorities.
liability towards customer for the products described herein shall be limited
in accordance with the Terms and conditions of commercial sale of NXP
                                                                                                  Translations — A non-English (translated) version of a document is for
Semiconductors.
                                                                                                  reference only. The English version shall prevail in case of any discrepancy
                                                                                                  between the translated and English versions.
Right to make changes — NXP Semiconductors reserves the right to
make changes to information published in this document, including without
limitation specifications and product descriptions, at any time and without
notice. This document supersedes and replaces all information supplied prior
to the publication hereof.                                                                        10.3 Trademarks
Suitability for use — NXP Semiconductors products are not designed,                               Notice: All referenced brands, product names, service names and
authorized or warranted to be suitable for use in life support, life-critical or                  trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
safety-critical systems or equipment, nor in applications where failure or
                                                                                                   2
malfunction of an NXP Semiconductors product can reasonably be expected                           I C-bus — logo is a trademark of NXP B.V.
to result in personal injury, death or severe property or environmental                           NXP — wordmark and logo are trademarks of NXP B.V.




UM10204                                                  All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                  © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                           Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                               59 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                              UM10204
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                             I C-bus specification and user manual



Tables
Tab. 1.    Revision history .................................................2                    Tab. 11.            Characteristics of the SDA and SCL bus
Tab. 2.    Definition of I2C-bus terminology ...................... 6                                                 lines for Standard, Fast, and Fast-mode
Tab. 3.    Applicability of I2C-bus protocol features .......... 7                                                    Plus I2C-bus devices ...................................... 44
Tab. 4.    Reserved addresses ....................................... 16                          Tab. 12.            Characteristics of the SDAH, SCLH, SDA
Tab. 5.    Assigned manufacturer IDs ............................. 20                                                 and SCL I/O stages for Hs-mode I2C-bus
Tab. 6.    Definition of UFm I2C-bus terminology ............21                                                       devices ............................................................ 46
Tab. 7.    Applicability of I2C-bus features to UFm ......... 23                                  Tab. 13.            Characteristics of the SDAH, SCLH, SDA
Tab. 8.    Reserved addresses ....................................... 27                                              and SCL bus lines for Hs-mode I2C-bus
Tab. 9.    Communication bit rates in a mixed-speed                                                                   devices ............................................................ 47
           bus system ...................................................... 40                   Tab. 14.            Characteristics of the USDA and USCL I/O
Tab. 10.   Characteristics of the SDA and SCL I/O                                                                     stages .............................................................. 48
           stages .............................................................. 43               Tab. 15.            UFm I2C-bus frequency and timing
                                                                                                                      specifications ................................................... 49
                                                                                                  Tab. 16.            Abbreviations ...................................................55


Figures
Fig. 1.    Example of I2C-bus applications .......................4                               Fig. 26.            A complete UFm data transfer ........................ 25
Fig. 2.    Example of an I2C-bus configuration using                                              Fig. 27.            The first byte after the START procedure ........ 26
           two microcontrollers .......................................... 6                      Fig. 28.            A controller-transmitter addressing a target
Fig. 3.    Devices with various supply voltages                                                                       receiver with a 7-bit address ........................... 26
           sharing the same bus ....................................... 8                         Fig. 29.            A controller-transmitter addresses a target-
Fig. 4.    Bit transfer on the I2C-bus ................................9                                              receiver with a 10-bit address ......................... 27
Fig. 5.    START and STOP conditions ............................9                                Fig. 30.            General call address format ............................ 28
Fig. 6.    Data transfer on the I2C-bus ...........................10                             Fig. 31.            START byte procedure ....................................29
Fig. 7.    Clock synchronization during the arbitration                                           Fig. 32.            I2C-bus configuration with Hs-mode
           procedure ........................................................ 11                                      devices only .................................................... 35
Fig. 8.    Arbitration procedure of two controllers ...........12                                 Fig. 33.            Data transfer format in Hs-mode .....................37
Fig. 9.    A complete data transfer .................................13                           Fig. 34.            A complete Hs-mode transfer ......................... 37
Fig. 10.   The first byte after the START procedure ........ 13                                   Fig. 35.            Hs-mode devices at F/S-mode speed ............. 39
Fig. 11.   A controller-transmitter addressing a target                                           Fig. 36.            Bus system with transfer at Hs-mode and
           receiver with a 7-bit address (the transfer                                                                F/S-mode speeds ............................................ 40
           direction is not changed) .................................14                          Fig. 37.            A complete Hs-mode transfer in a mixed-
Fig. 12.   A controller reads a target immediately                                                                    speed bus system ........................................... 42
           after the first byte ............................................ 14                   Fig. 38.            Definition of timing for F/S-mode devices
Fig. 13.   Combined format .............................................14                                            on the I2C-bus ................................................ 45
Fig. 14.   A controller-transmitter addresses a target-                                           Fig. 39.            Definition of timing for Hs-mode devices on
           receiver with a 10-bit address ......................... 15                                                the I2C-bus ......................................................48
Fig. 15.   A controller-receiver addresses a target-                                              Fig. 40.            Definition of timing for Ultra Fast-mode
           transmitter with a 10-bit address ..................... 16                                                 devices on the I2C-bus ................................... 49
Fig. 16.   General call address format ............................ 17                            Fig. 41.            Rp(max) as a function of bus capacitance ...... 50
Fig. 17.   Data transfer from a hardware controller-                                              Fig. 42.            Rp(min) as a function of VDD ......................... 50
           transmitter ........................................................17                 Fig. 43.            Using a buffer to divide bus capacitance .........52
Fig. 18.   Data transfer by a hardware-transmitter                                                Fig. 44.            Switched pull-up circuit ................................... 52
           capable of dumping data directly to target                                             Fig. 45.            Series resistors (Rs) for protection against
           devices ............................................................ 18                                    high-voltage spikes ..........................................53
Fig. 19.   START byte procedure ....................................19                            Fig. 46.            Maximum value of Rs as a function of
Fig. 20.   Device ID field .................................................19                                        the value of Rp with supply voltage as a
Fig. 21.   Example of UFm I2C-bus configuration ...........22                                                         parameter ........................................................ 53
Fig. 22.   Simplified schematic of USCL, USDA                                                     Fig. 47.            Total HIGH-level input current as a function
           outputs .............................................................23                                    of the maximum value of Rp with supply
Fig. 23.   Bit transfer on the UFm I2C-bus ..................... 24                                                   voltage as a parameter ................................... 54
Fig. 24.   Definition of START and STOP conditions                                                Fig. 48.            I2C and I3C targets coexisting with I3C
           for UFm I2C-bus ............................................. 24                                           controller ..........................................................56
Fig. 25.   Data transfer on the UFm I2C-bus .................. 25
UM10204                                                  All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.                            © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                           Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                         60 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                         UM10204
                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                      I C-bus specification and user manual


Fig. 49.   Comparison of Energy Consumption and                                            Fig. 50.            Comparison of I3C and I3C Basic Features .... 58
           Data Rates: I3C vs I2C ................................... 57




UM10204                                           All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.              © NXP B.V. 2021. All rights reserved.

User manual                                                    Rev. 7.0 — 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                                    61 / 62
NXP Semiconductors
                                                                                                                                                 UM10204
                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                               I C-bus specification and user manual



Contents
1        Introduction ......................................................... 3         4.5           Advanced Telecom Computing Architecture
2        I2C-bus features .................................................. 3                          (ATCA) ............................................................. 32
2.1        Designer benefits ...............................................4             4.6           Display Data Channel (DDC) ...........................33
2.2        Manufacturer benefits ........................................ 5               5           Bus speeds ........................................................33
2.3        IC designer benefits .......................................... 5              5.1           Fast-mode ........................................................33
3        The I2C-bus protocol .......................................... 6                5.2           Fast-mode Plus ............................................... 34
3.1        Standard-mode, Fast-mode and Fast-mode                                         5.3           Hs-mode .......................................................... 34
           Plus I2C-bus protocols ...................................... 6                5.3.1         High speed transfer ......................................... 34
3.1.1      SDA and SCL signals ........................................8                  5.3.2         Serial data format in Hs-mode .........................36
3.1.2      SDA and SCL logic levels ................................. 8                   5.3.3         Switching from F/S-mode to Hs-mode and
3.1.3      Data validity ....................................................... 8                      back ................................................................. 37
3.1.4      START and STOP conditions ............................ 9                       5.3.4         Hs-mode devices at lower speed modes ......... 38
3.1.5      Byte format ........................................................ 9         5.3.5         Mixed speed modes on one serial bus
3.1.6      Acknowledge (ACK) and Not Acknowledge                                                        system ..............................................................39
           (NACK) .............................................................10         5.3.6         Standard, Fast-mode and Fast-mode Plus
3.1.7      Clock synchronization ......................................10                               transfer in a mixed-speed bus system ............. 40
3.1.8      Arbitration .........................................................11        5.3.7         Hs-mode transfer in a mixed-speed bus
3.1.9      Clock stretching ............................................... 12                          system ..............................................................41
3.1.10     The target address and R/W bit ...................... 12                       5.3.8         Timing requirements for the bridge in a
3.1.11     10-bit addressing ............................................. 15                           mixed-speed bus system .................................42
3.1.12     Reserved addresses ........................................16                  5.4           Ultra Fast-mode ............................................... 42
3.1.13     General call address ....................................... 16                6           Electrical specifications and timing for I/O
3.1.14     Software reset ................................................. 18                        stages and bus lines ........................................ 43
3.1.15     START byte ..................................................... 18            6.1           Standard-, Fast-, and Fast-mode Plus
3.1.16     Bus clear ..........................................................19                       devices .............................................................43
3.1.17     Device ID ......................................................... 19         6.2           Hs-mode devices ............................................. 45
3.2        Ultra Fast-mode I2C-bus protocol ....................21                        6.3           Ultra Fast-mode devices ..................................48
3.2.1      USDA and USCL signals .................................23                      7           Electrical connections of I2C-bus devices
3.2.2      USDA and USCL logic levels .......................... 23                                   to the bus lines ................................................. 50
3.2.3      Data validity ..................................................... 24         7.1           Pull-up resistor sizing ...................................... 50
3.2.4      START and STOP conditions .......................... 24                        7.2           Operating above the maximum allowable
3.2.5      Byte format ...................................................... 24                        bus capacitance ...............................................51
3.2.6      Acknowledge (ACK) and Not Acknowledge                                          7.2.1         Reduced fSCL ................................................. 51
           (NACK) .............................................................25         7.2.2         Higher drive outputs ........................................ 51
3.2.7      The target address and R/W bit ...................... 25                       7.2.3         Bus buffers, multiplexers and switches ............51
3.2.8      10-bit addressing ............................................. 26             7.2.4         Switched pull-up circuit ....................................52
3.2.9      Reserved addresses in UFm ........................... 27                       7.3           Series protection resistors ............................... 53
3.2.10     General call address ....................................... 28                7.4           Input leakage ................................................... 53
3.2.11     Software reset ................................................. 28            7.5           Wiring pattern of the bus lines .........................54
3.2.12     START byte ..................................................... 29            8           Abbreviations .................................................... 55
3.2.13     Unresponsive target reset ............................... 29                   9           Overview of MIPI I3C ........................................ 56
3.2.14     Device ID ......................................................... 29         9.1           Comparison of features ................................... 58
4        Other uses of the I2C-bus                                                        10          Legal information .............................................. 59
         communications protocol ................................ 30
4.1        CBUS compatibility .......................................... 30
4.2        SMBus - System Management Bus .................30
4.2.1      I2C/SMBus compliancy ....................................30
4.2.2      Time-out feature .............................................. 31
4.2.3      Differences between SMBus 1.0 and
           SMBus 2.0 ....................................................... 31
4.3        PMBus - Power Management Bus ...................31
4.4        Intelligent Platform Management Interface
           (IPMI) ............................................................... 32

                                                                                       Please be aware that important notices concerning this document and the product(s)
                                                                                       described herein, have been included in section 'Legal information'.


                                                                                       © NXP B.V. 2021.                                                 All rights reserved.
                                                                                       For more information, please visit: http://www.nxp.com
                                                                                       For sales office addresses, please send an email to: salesaddresses@nxp.com
                                                                                                                                                Date of release: 1 October 2021
                                                                                                                                                 Document identifier: UM10204
