     Cortex-M4 Interrupt Pending Behaviour


                                     Ankit Srivastava
                                          EE2028
                            ARMv7-M Architecture Ref Manual
                         DS12024Rev4 STM32L4Sxxx Datasheet
                     RM0432 STM32L4+ Technical reference manual
                     PM0214 STM32 Cortex-M4 Programming Manual
Figures from “The Definitive Guide to ARM® Cortex®-M3 and Cortex®-M4 Processors” by Joseph Yiu
               Acknowledgement: Slides adapted from Dr Rajesh Panicker                                                                   1

                                                                    ©
                                                                    © Copyright
                                                                      Copyright National
                                                                                National University
                                                                                         University of
                                                                                                    of Singapore.
                                                                                                       Singapore. All
                                                                                                                  All Rights
                                                                                                                      Rights Reserved.
                                                                                                                             Reserved.
OVERVIEW
•   Interrupt Pending Behavior




                                                                                                      2

                                 © Copyright National University of Singapore. All Rights Reserved.
INTERRUPT PENDING BEHAVIOR
 •   Pending is a state of an exc./int. waiting for the CPU to
     process
 •   When an exc./int. is asserted, it will be pended
 •   Even if the interrupt signal is then de-asserted, pending
     status is still maintained and causes the interrupt handler
     to be executed
 •   When the int. handler starts, pending status will be
     cleared automatically by the processor/NVIC
 •   If the int. handler cannot be carried out immediately
     (e.g., if a higher- priority interrupt handler is running or
     if the interrupt is disabled), the exc./int. will remain
     pending
 •   Pending status can be cleared before the CPU responds
     to the int. by writing to an interrupt control register in                                                                          3

     NVIC (not a ‘normal’ scenario, will see later)                 © Copyright National University of Singapore. All Rights Reserved.
    INTERRUPT PENDING BEHAVIOR
•    When CPU starts to execute an int., the int.
     becomes active and pending bit is cleared
     automatically
•    Pending can happen when an int. is disabled. It can
     trigger the int. sequence when it is enabled later
•    Pending -> active happens only if the interrupt is enabled




                                                •   An int. that is signaled several times before CPU
                                                    starts to process it will be treated as a single int.
                                                    request
                                                    •    Subsequent arrivals of an interrupt which is already
                                                         pending are ‘lost’                                                                        4

                                                                              © Copyright National University of Singapore. All Rights Reserved.
    INTERRUPT PENDING BEHAVIOR
•    If an int. source continues to hold int. request signal
     active, int. will be pended again at the end of int.
     service routine (exception handler exit)
     •   Typically happens when an interrupt is not ‘cleared’
         by the software




                                                    •   If a device raises an interrupt while its handler is
                                                        already running, it will be pended again
                                                        •       When an interrupt is raised, it goes pending as
                                                                long as it is not already pending, irrespective of
                                                                other factors such as whether it is enabled,
                                                                whether the corresponding handler is already
                                                                running                                                                                5

                                                                                  © Copyright National University of Singapore. All Rights Reserved.
CONCLUSION
 •   Interrupt Pending Behavior
     •   Interrupt Pending status
     •   Interrupt Active status
     •   Processor mode
     •   Thread mode




                                                                                                         6

                                    © Copyright National University of Singapore. All Rights Reserved.
